              Current Internet-Drafts

   This summary sheet provides a short synopsis of each Internet-Draft
available within the "internet-drafts" directory at the shadow
sites directory.  These drafts are listed alphabetically by working
group acronym and start date. Generated 2013-10-29 07:09:12 UTC.


IPv6 over Low power WPAN (6lowpan)
----------------------------------

  "Transmission of IPv6 Packets over BLUETOOTH Low Energy", Johanna
  Nieminen, Teemu Savolainen, Markus Isomaki, Basavaraj Patil, Zach
  Shelby, Carles Gomez, 2013-02-12, <draft-ietf-6lowpan-btle-12.txt>

      BLUETOOTH Low Energy is a low power air interface technology defined
      by the BLUETOOTH Special Interest Group (BT-SIG).  The standard
      BLUETOOTH radio has been widely implemented and available in mobile
      phones, notebook computers, audio headsets and many other devices.
      The low power version of BLUETOOTH is a new specification that
      enables the use of this air interface with devices such as sensors,
      smart meters, appliances, etc.  The low power variant of BLUETOOTH is
      currently specified in the revision 4.0 of the BLUETOOTH
      specifications (BLUETOOTH 4.0).  This document describes how IPv6 is
      transported over BLUETOOTH Low Energy using 6LoWPAN techniques.

IPv6 Maintenance (6man)
-----------------------

  "Distributing Address Selection Policy using DHCPv6", Arifumi Matsumoto,
  Tomohiro Fujisaki, Tim Chown, 2013-10-08,
  <draft-ietf-6man-addr-select-opt-13.txt>

      RFC 6724 defines default address selection mechanisms for IPv6 that
      allow nodes to select an appropriate address when faced with multiple
      source and/or destination addresses to choose between.  RFC 6724
      allows for the future definition of methods to administratively
      configure the address selection policy information.  This document
      defines a new DHCPv6 option for such configuration, allowing a site
      administrator to distribute address selection policy overriding the
      default address selection parameters and policy table, and thus to
      control the address selection behavior of nodes in their site.

  "Neighbor Unreachability Detection is too impatient", Erik Nordmark,
  Igor Gashinsky, 2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-6man-impatient-nud-07.txt>

      IPv6 Neighbor Discovery includes Neighbor Unreachability Detection.
      That function is very useful when a host has an alternative neighbor,
      for instance when there are multiple default routers, since it allows
      the host to switch to the alternative neighbor in short time.  This
      time is 3 seconds after the node starts probing by default.  However,
      if there are no alternative neighbors, this is far too impatient.
      This document specifies relaxed rules for Neighbor Discovery
      retransmissions that allow an implementation to choose different
      timeout behavior based on whether or not there are alternative
      neighbors.  This document updates RFC 4861.

  "Enhanced Duplicate Address Detection", Rajiv Asati, Hemant Singh, Wes
  Beebee, Eli Dart, Wesley George, Carlos Pignataro, 2013-05-24,
  <draft-ietf-6man-enhanced-dad-03.txt>

      Appendix A of the IPv6 Duplicate Address Detection (DAD) document in
      RFC 4862 discusses Loopback Suppression and DAD.  However, RFC 4862
      does not settle on one specific automated means to detect loopback of
      Neighbor Discovery (ND of RFC 4861) messages used by DAD.  Several
      service provider communities have expressed a need for automated
      detection of looped backed ND messages used by DAD.  This document
      includes mitigation techniques and then outlines the Enhanced DAD
      algorithm to automate detection of looped back IPv6 ND messages used
      by DAD.  For network loopback tests, the Enhanced DAD algorithm
      allows IPv6 to self-heal after a loopback is placed and removed.
      Further, for certain access networks the document automates resolving
      a specific duplicate address conflict.

  "A Method for Generating Semantically Opaque Interface Identifiers with
  IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguration (SLAAC)", Fernando Gont,
  2013-10-11, <draft-ietf-6man-stable-privacy-addresses-14.txt>

      This document specifies a method for generating IPv6 Interface
      Identifiers to be used with IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguration
      (SLAAC), such that addresses configured using this method are stable
      within each subnet, but the Interface Identifier changes when hosts
      move from one network to another.  This method is meant to be an
      alternative to generating Interface Identifiers based on hardware
      addresses (e.g., IEEE LAN MAC addresses), such that the benefits of
      stable addresses can be achieved without sacrificing the privacy of
      users.  The method specified in this document applies to all prefixes
      a host may be employing, including link-local, global, and unique-
      local addresses.

  "Implications of Oversized IPv6 Header Chains", Fernando Gont, Vishwas
  Manral, Ron Bonica, 2013-10-02,
  <draft-ietf-6man-oversized-header-chain-08.txt>

      The IPv6 specification allows IPv6 header chains of an arbitrary
      size.  The specification also allows options which can in turn extend
      each of the headers.  In those scenarios in which the IPv6 header
      chain or options are unusually long and packets are fragmented, or
      scenarios in which the fragment size is very small, the first
      fragment of a packet may fail to include the entire IPv6 header
      chain.  This document discusses the interoperability and security
      problems of such traffic, and updates RFC 2460 such that the first
      fragment of a packet is required to contain the entire IPv6 header
      chain.

  "Packet loss resiliency for Router Solicitations", Suresh Krishnan,
  Dmitry Anipko, Dave Thaler, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-6man-resilient-rs-02.txt>

      When an interface on a host is initialized, the host transmits Router
      Solicitations in order to minimize the amount of time it needs to
      wait until the next unsolicited multicast Router Advertisement is
      received.  In certain scenarios, these router solicitations
      transmitted by the host might be lost.  This document specifies a
      mechanism for hosts to cope with the loss of the initial Router
      Solicitations.  Furthermore, on some links, unsolicited multicast
      Router Advertisements are never sent and the mechanism in this
      document is intended to work even in such scenarios.

  "Significance of IPv6 Interface Identifiers", Brian Carpenter, Sheng
  Jiang, 2013-10-01, <draft-ietf-6man-ug-04.txt>

      The IPv6 addressing architecture includes a unicast interface
      identifier that is used in the creation of many IPv6 addresses.
      Interface identifiers are formed by a variety of methods.  This
      document clarifies that the bits in an interface identifier have no
      generic meaning and that the identifier should be treated as an
      opaque value.  In particular, RFC 4291 defines a method by which the
      Universal and Group bits of an IEEE link-layer address are mapped
      into an IPv6 unicast interface identifier.  This document clarifies
      that those two bits are significant only in interface identifiers
      that are derived from an IEEE link-layer address, and updates RFC
      4291 accordingly.

  "Transmission and Processing of IPv6 Extension Headers", Brian
  Carpenter, Sheng Jiang, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-ietf-6man-ext-transmit-05.txt>

      Various IPv6 extension headers have been standardised since the IPv6
      standard was first published.  This document updates RFC 2460 to
      clarify how intermediate nodes should deal with such extension
      headers and with any that are defined in future.  It also specifies
      how extension headers should be registered by IANA, with a
      corresponding minor update to RFC 2780.

  "Updates to the IPv6 Multicast Addressing Architecture", Mohamed
  Boucadair, Stig Venaas, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-ietf-6man-multicast-addr-arch-update-02.txt>

      This document updates the IPv6 multicast addressing architecture by
      defining the 17-20 reserved bits as generic flag bits.  The document
      provides also some clarifications related to the use of these flag
      bits.
      
      This document updates RFC 3956, RFC 3306 and RFC 4291.

  "IPv6 Multicast Address Scopes", Ralph Droms, 2013-08-20,
  <draft-ietf-6man-multicast-scopes-00.txt>

      This document updates the definitions of IPv6 multicast scopes.

  "Privacy Considerations for IPv6 Address Generation Mechanisms", Alissa
  Cooper, Fernando Gont, Dave Thaler, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-ietf-6man-ipv6-address-generation-privacy-00.txt>

      This document discusses privacy and security considerations for
      several IPv6 address generation mechanisms, both standardized and
      non-standardized.  It evaluates how different mechanisms mitigate
      different threats and the trade-offs that implementors, developers,
      and users face in choosing different addresses or address generation
      mechanisms.

Application Bridging for Federated Access Beyond web (abfab)
------------------------------------------------------------

  "A GSS-API Mechanism for the Extensible Authentication Protocol", Sam
  Hartman, Josh Howlett, 2012-08-13, <draft-ietf-abfab-gss-eap-09.txt>

      This document defines protocols, procedures, and conventions to be
      employed by peers implementing the Generic Security Service
      Application Program Interface (GSS-API) when using the Extensible
      Authentication Protocol mechanism.  Through the GS2 family of
      mechanisms defined in RFC 5801, these protocols also define how
      Simple Authentication and Security Layer (SASL, RFC 4422)
      applications use the Extensible Authentication Protocol.

  "Name Attributes for the GSS-API EAP mechanism", Sam Hartman, Josh
  Howlett, 2012-11-14, <draft-ietf-abfab-gss-eap-naming-07.txt>

      The naming extensions to the Generic Security Services Application
      Programming interface provide a mechanism for applications to
      discover authorization and personalization information associated
      with GSS-API names.  The Extensible Authentication Protocol GSS-API
      mechanism allows an Authentication/Authorization/Accounting peer to
      provide authorization attributes along side an authentication
      response.  It also provides mechanisms to process Security Assertion
      Markup Language (SAML) messages provided in the AAA response.  This
      document describes the necessary information to use the naming
      extensions API to access that information.

  "A RADIUS Attribute, Binding, Profiles, Name Identifier Format, and
  Confirmation Methods for SAML", Josh Howlett, Sam Hartman, 2013-07-03,
  <draft-ietf-abfab-aaa-saml-06.txt>

      This document specifies a RADIUS attribute, a binding, a name
      identifier format, two profiles, and two confirmation methods for the
      Security Assertion Mark-up Language (SAML).  The attribute provides
      RADIUS encapsulation of SAML protocol messages, and the binding
      describes the use of this attribute, and the SAML protocol messages
      within, with RADIUS transport.  The two profiles describe the
      application of this binding for ABFAB authentication and assertion
      query/request respectively.  The name identifier format allows a
      subject to be named using an NAI, and the subject confirmation
      methods allow queries to be issued for a principal without needing to
      explicitly name the intended subject within the request.  These
      artifacts have been defined to permit application in scenarios other
      than ABFAB, such as network access.

  "Application Bridging for Federated Access Beyond web (ABFAB) Use
  Cases", Rhys Smith, 2012-09-25, <draft-ietf-abfab-usecases-05.txt>

      Federated identity is typically associated with Web-based services at
      present, but there is growing interest in its application in non Web-
      based contexts.  The goal of this document is to document a selection
      of the wide variety of these contexts whose user experience could be
      improved through the use of technologies based on the ABFAB
      architecture and specifications.

  "Application Bridging for Federated Access Beyond Web (ABFAB)
  Architecture", Josh Howlett, Sam Hartman, Hannes Tschofenig, Eliot Lear,
  Jim Schaad, 2013-07-30, <draft-ietf-abfab-arch-07.txt>

      Over the last decade a substantial amount of work has occurred in the
      space of federated access management.  Most of this effort has
      focused on two use cases: network access and web-based access.
      However, the solutions to these use cases that have been proposed and
      deployed tend to have few common building blocks in common.
      
      This memo describes an architecture that makes use of extensions to
      the commonly used security mechanisms for both federated and non-
      federated access management, including the Remote Authentication Dial
      In User Service (RADIUS) and the Diameter protocol, the Generic
      Security Service (GSS), the Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP)
      and the Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML).  The architecture
      addresses the problem of federated access management to primarily
      non-web-based services, in a manner that will scale to large numbers
      of identity providers, relying parties, and federations.

  "Update to the EAP Applicability Statement for ABFAB", Stefan Winter,
  Joseph Salowey, 2013-08-22, <draft-ietf-abfab-eapapplicability-06.txt>

      This document updates the Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP)
      applicability statement from RFC3748 to reflect recent usage of the
      EAP protocol in the Application Bridging for Federated Access Beyond
      web (ABFAB) architecture.

ADSL MIB (adslmib)
------------------

  "Definitions of Managed Objects for Very High Speed Digital Subscriber
  Line 2 (VDSL2)", Scott Baillie, Markus Freudenberger, Moti Morgenstern,
  2013-08-01, <draft-ietf-adslmib-xdsl-vop-02.txt>

      This document defines a Management Information Base (MIB) module for
      use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
      particular, it describes objects used for managing parameters of the
      "Very High Speed Digital Subscriber Line 2 (VDSL2)" interface type,
      which are also applicable for managing Asymmetric Digital Subscriber
      Line (ADSL), ADSL2, and ADSL2+ interfaces.

Application-Layer Traffic Optimization (alto)
---------------------------------------------

  "ALTO Protocol", Richard Alimi, Reinaldo Penno, Yang Yang, 2013-10-02,
  <draft-ietf-alto-protocol-20.txt>

      Applications using the Internet already have access to some topology
      information of Internet Service Provider (ISP) networks.  For
      example, views to Internet routing tables at looking glass servers
      are available and can be practically downloaded to many network
      application clients.  What is missing is knowledge of the underlying
      network topologies from the point of view of ISPs.  In other words,
      what an ISP prefers in terms of traffic optimization -- and a way to
      distribute it.
      
      The Application-Layer Traffic Optimization (ALTO) Service provides
      network information (e.g., basic network location structure and
      preferences of network paths) with the goal of modifying network
      resource consumption patterns while maintaining or improving
      application performance.  The basic information of ALTO is based on
      abstract maps of a network.  These maps provide a simplified view,
      yet enough information about a network for applications to
      effectively utilize them.  Additional services are built on top of
      the maps.
      
      This document describes a protocol implementing the ALTO Service.
      Although the ALTO Service would primarily be provided by ISPs, other
      entities such as content service providers could also operate an ALTO
      Service.  Applications that could use this service are those that
      have a choice to which end points to connect.  Examples of such
      applications are peer-to-peer (P2P) and content delivery networks.

  "ALTO Deployment Considerations", Martin Stiemerling, Sebastian Kiesel,
  Stefano Previdi, Michael Scharf, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-alto-deployments-08.txt>

      Many Internet applications are used to access resources such as
      pieces of information or server processes that are available in
      several equivalent replicas on different hosts.  This includes, but
      is not limited to, peer-to-peer file sharing applications.  The goal
      of Application-Layer Traffic Optimization (ALTO) is to provide
      guidance to applications that have to select one or several hosts
      from a set of candidates, which are able to provide a desired
      resource.  This memo discusses deployment related issues of ALTO.  It
      addresses different use cases of ALTO such as peer-to-peer file
      sharing and CDNs, security considerations, recommendations for
      network administrators, and also guidance for application designers
      using ALTO.

  "ALTO Server Discovery", Sebastian Kiesel, Martin Stiemerling, Nico
  Schwan, Michael Scharf, Song Yongchao, 2013-09-09,
  <draft-ietf-alto-server-discovery-10.txt>

      The goal of Application-Layer Traffic Optimization (ALTO) is to
      provide guidance to applications that have to select one or several
      hosts from a set of candidates capable of providing a desired
      resource.  ALTO is realized by a client-server protocol.  Before an
      ALTO client can ask for guidance it needs to discover one or more
      ALTO servers.
      
      This document specifies a procedure for resource consumer initiated
      ALTO server discovery, which can be used if the ALTO client is
      embedded in the resource consumer.

Access Node Control Protocol (ancp)
-----------------------------------

  "Access Node Control Protocol (ANCP) MIB module for Access Nodes",
  Stefaan De Cnodder, Moti Morgenstern, 2013-06-24,
  <draft-ietf-ancp-mib-an-11.txt>

      This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
      for use with network management protocols.  In particular it defines
      objects for managing access nodes that are using the Access Node
      Control Protocol (ANCP).

  "Multicast Control Extensions for ANCP", Francois Le Faucheur, Roberta
  Maglione, Tom Taylor, 2013-08-21, <draft-ietf-ancp-mc-extensions-10.txt>

      This document specifies the extensions to the Access Node Control
      Protocol required for support of the multicast use cases defined in
      the Access Node Control Protocol framework document and one
      additional use case described in this document.  These use cases are
      organized into the following ANCP capabilities:
      
      o  NAS-initiated multicast replication;
      
      o  conditional access with white and black lists;
      
      o  conditional access with grey lists;
      
      o  bandwidth delegation;
      
      o  committed bandwidth reporting.
      
      These capabilities may be combined according to the rules given in
      this specification.

Applications Area (app)
-----------------------

  "Prefer Header for HTTP", James Snell, 2013-01-07,
  <draft-snell-http-prefer-18.txt>

      This specification defines an HTTP header field that can be used by a
      client to request that certain behaviors be employed by a server
      while processing a request.

  "Internet Calendar Scheduling Protocol (iSchedule)", Cyrus Daboo,
  Bernard Desruisseaux, 2013-05-03, <draft-desruisseaux-ischedule-05.txt>

      This document defines the Internet Calendar Scheduling Protocol
      (iSchedule), which is a binding from the iCalendar Transport-
      independent Interoperability Protocol (iTIP) to the Hypertext
      Transfer Protocol (HTTP) to enable interoperability between
      calendaring and scheduling systems over the Internet.

  "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Status Code 308 (Permanent
  Redirect)", Julian Reschke, 2012-03-26,
  <draft-reschke-http-status-308-07.txt>

      This document specifies the additional HyperText Transfer Protocol
      (HTTP) Status Code 308 (Permanent Redirect).

  "File Transfer Protocol HOST Command for Virtual Hosts", Paul Hethmon,
  Robert McMurray, 2013-09-20,
  <draft-hethmon-mcmurray-ftpext-ftp-hosts-03.txt>

      The File Transfer Protocol, as defined in RFC 959, does not provide a
      way for FTP clients and servers to differentiate between multiple DNS
      names that are registered for a single IP address.  This document
      defines a new FTP command that provides a mechanism for FTP clients
      and servers to identify individual virtual hosts on an FTP server.

Applications Area Working Group (appsawg)
-----------------------------------------

  "Advice for Safe Handling of Malformed Messages", Murray Kucherawy,
  Gregory Shapiro, Ned Freed, 2013-10-05,
  <draft-ietf-appsawg-malformed-mail-09.txt>

      Although Internet mail formats have been precisely defined since the
      1970s, authoring and handling software often show only mild
      conformance to the specifications.  The malformed messages that
      result are non-standard.  Nonetheless, decades of experience has
      shown that handling with some tolerance the malformations that result
      is often an acceptable approach, and is better than rejecting the
      messages outright as nonconformant.  This document includes a
      collection of the best advice available regarding a variety of common
      malformed mail situations, to be used as implementation guidance.

  "Forwarded HTTP Extension", Andreas Petersson, Martin Nilsson,
  2012-10-09, <draft-ietf-appsawg-http-forwarded-10.txt>

      This document defines an HTTP extension header field that allows
      proxy components to disclose information lost in the proxying
      process, for example, the originating IP address of a request or IP
      address of the proxy on the user-agent-facing interface.  In a path
      of proxying components, this makes it possible to arrange it so that
      each subsequent component will have access to, for example, all IP
      addresses used in the chain of proxied HTTP requests.
      
      This document also specifies guidelines for a proxy administrator to
      anonymize the origin of a request.

  "The 'acct' URI Scheme", Peter Saint-Andre, 2013-07-02,
  <draft-ietf-appsawg-acct-uri-06.txt>

      This document defines the 'acct' Uniform Resource Identifier (URI)
      scheme as a way to identify a user's account at a service provider,
      irrespective of the particular protocols that can be used to interact
      with the account.

  "XML Media Types", Henry Thompson, Chris Lilley, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-ietf-appsawg-xml-mediatypes-03.txt>

      This specification standardizes three media types -- application/xml,
      application/xml-external-parsed-entity, and application/xml-dtd --
      for use in exchanging network entities that are related to the
      Extensible Markup Language (XML) while defining text/xml and text/
      xml-external-parsed-entity as aliases for the respective application/
      types.  This specification also standardizes the '+xml' suffix for
      naming media types outside of these five types when those media types
      represent XML MIME entities.

  "The application/json-merge-patch Media Type", James Snell, 2013-09-17,
  <draft-ietf-appsawg-json-merge-patch-01.txt>

      This specification defines the application/json-merge-patch media
      type and its intended use with the HTTP PATCH method defined by RFC
      5789.

  "Sieve Email Filtering: Detecting Duplicate Deliveries", Stephan Bosch,
  2013-05-22, <draft-ietf-appsawg-sieve-duplicate-00.txt>

      This document defines a new test command "duplicate" for the "Sieve"
      email filtering language.  This test adds the ability to detect
      duplicate message deliveries.  The main application for this new test
      is handling duplicate deliveries commonly caused by mailing list
      subscriptions or redirected mail addresses.  The detection is
      normally performed by matching the message ID to an internal list of
      message IDs from previously delivered messages.  For more complex
      applications, the "duplicate" test can also use the content of a
      specific header or other parts of the message.

  "The Require-Recipient-Valid-Since Header Field and SMTP Service
  Extension", William Mills, Murray Kucherawy, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-appsawg-rrvs-header-field-01.txt>

      This document defines an extension for the Simple Mail Transfer
      Protocol called RRVS, and a header field called Require-Recipient-
      Valid-Since, to provide a method for senders to indicate to receivers
      the time when the sender last confirmed the ownership of the target
      mailbox.  This can be used to detect changes of mailbox ownership,
      and thus prevent mail from being delivered to the wrong party.
      
      The intended use of these facilities is on automatically generated
      messages that might contain sensitive information, though it may also
      be useful in other applications.

  "Standardising Structure in URIs", Mark Nottingham, 2013-09-17,
  <draft-ietf-appsawg-uri-get-off-my-lawn-00.txt>

      Sometimes, it is attractive to add features to protocols or
      applications by specifying a particular structure for URIs (or parts
      thereof).  This document cautions against this practice in standards
      (sometimes called "URI Squatting").

  "Returning Values from Forms: multipart/form-data", Larry Masinter,
  2013-10-01, <draft-ietf-appsawg-multipart-form-data-00.txt,.pdf>

      This specification (re)defines the multipart/form-data Internet Media
      Type, which can be used by a wide variety of applications and
      transported by a wide variety of protocols as a way of returning a
      set of values as the result of a user filling out a form.  It
      replaces RFC 2388.

Active Queue Management and Packet Scheduling (aqm)
---------------------------------------------------

  "IETF Recommendations Regarding Active Queue Management", Fred Baker,
  Gorry Fairhurst, 2013-10-17, <draft-ietf-aqm-recommendation-00.txt>

      This memo presents recommendations to the Internet community
      concerning measures to improve and preserve Internet performance.  It
      presents a strong recommendation for testing, standardization, and
      widespread deployment of active queue management (AQM) in network
      devices, to improve the performance of today's Internet.  It also
      urges a concerted effort of research, measurement, and ultimate
      deployment of AQM mechanisms to protect the Internet from flows that
      are not sufficiently responsive to congestion notification.
      
      The note largely repeats the recommendations of RFC 2309, updated
      after fifteen years of experience and new research.

Audio/Video Transport Core Maintenance (avtcore)
------------------------------------------------

  "Securing the RTP Protocol Framework: Why RTP Does Not Mandate a Single
  Media Security Solution", Colin Perkins, Magnus Westerlund, 2013-10-15,
  <draft-ietf-avt-srtp-not-mandatory-14.txt>

      This memo discusses the problem of securing real-time multimedia
      sessions, and explains why the Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP),
      and the associated RTP Control Protocol (RTCP), do not mandate a
      single media security mechanism.  Guidelines for designers and
      reviewers of future RTP extensions are provided, to ensure that
      appropriate security mechanisms are mandated, and that any such
      mechanisms are specified in a manner that conforms with the RTP
      architecture.

  "Inter-destination Media Synchronization using the RTP Control Protocol
  (RTCP)", Ray van Brandenburg, Hans Stokking, Oskar van Deventer,
  Fernando Boronat, Mario Montagud, Kevin Gross, 2013-08-29,
  <draft-ietf-avtcore-idms-13.txt>

      This document defines a new RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Packet Type
      and an RTCP Extended Report (XR) Block Type to be used for achieving
      Inter-Destination Media Synchronization (IDMS).  IDMS is the process
      of synchronizing playout across multiple geographically distributed
      media receivers.  Using the RTCP XR IDMS Report Block defined in this
      document, media playout information from participants in a
      synchronization group can be collected.  Based on the collected
      information, an RTCP IDMS Settings Packet can then be sent to
      distribute a common target playout point to which all the distributed
      receivers, sharing a media experience, can synchronize.
      
      Typical use cases in which IDMS is useful are social TV, shared
      service control (i.e. applications where two or more geographically
      separated users are watching a media stream together), distance
      learning, networked video walls, networked loudspeakers, etc.

  "AES-GCM and AES-CCM Authenticated Encryption in Secure RTP (SRTP)",
  David McGrew, Kevin Igoe, 2013-09-23,
  <draft-ietf-avtcore-srtp-aes-gcm-10.txt>

      This document defines how AES-GCM and AES-CCM Authenticated
      Encryption with Associated Data algorithms can be used to provide
      confidentiality and data authentication in the SRTP protocol.

  "The ARIA Algorithm and Its Use with the Secure Real-time Transport
  Protocol(SRTP)", Woo-Hwan Kim, Jungkeun Lee, Dong-Chan Kim, Je-Hong
  Park, Daesung Kwon, 2013-09-24,
  <draft-ietf-avtcore-aria-srtp-05.txt,.pdf>

      This document describes the use of the ARIA block cipher algorithm
      within the Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP) for providing
      confidentiality for the Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) traffic
      and for the control traffic for RTP, the RTP Control Protocol (RTCP).
      It details three modes of operation (CTR, CCM, GCM) and a SRTP Key
      Derivation Function for ARIA.

  "RTP and Leap Seconds", Kevin Gross, Ray van Brandenburg, 2013-10-01,
  <draft-ietf-avtcore-leap-second-05.txt>

      This document discusses issues that arise when RTP sessions span
      Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) leap seconds.  It updates RFC 3550
      to describe how RTP senders and receivers should behave in the
      presence of leap seconds.

  "RTP Clock Source Signalling", Aidan Williams, Kevin Gross, Ray van
  Brandenburg, Hans Stokking, 2013-10-02,
  <draft-ietf-avtcore-clksrc-07.txt>

      NTP format timestamps are used by several RTP protocols for
      synchronisation and statistical measurements.  This memo specifies
      SDP signalling identifying timestamp reference clock sources and SDP
      signalling identifying the media clock sources in a multimedia
      session.

  "Encrypted Key Transport for Secure RTP", David McGrew, Dan Wing,
  2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-avtcore-srtp-ekt-01.txt>

      Encrypted Key Transport (EKT) is an extension to Secure Real-time
      Transport Protocol (SRTP) that provides for the secure transport of
      SRTP master keys, Rollover Counters, and other information, within
      SRTP or SRTCP.  This facility enables SRTP to work for decentralized
      conferences with minimal control.
      
      This note defines EKT, and also describes how to use it with SDP
      Security Descriptions, DTLS-SRTP, and MIKEY.  These other key
      management protocols provide an EKT key to everyone in a session, and
      EKT coordinates the keys within the session.

  "Options for Securing RTP Sessions", Magnus Westerlund, Colin Perkins,
  2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-avtcore-rtp-security-options-08.txt>

      The Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) is used in a large number of
      different application domains and environments.  This heterogeneity
      implies that different security mechanisms are needed to provide
      services such as confidentiality, integrity and source authentication
      of RTP/RTCP packets suitable for the various environments.  The range
      of solutions makes it difficult for RTP-based application developers
      to pick the most suitable mechanism.  This document provides an
      overview of a number of security solutions for RTP, and gives
      guidance for developers on how to choose the appropriate security
      mechanism.

  "Sending Multiple Types of Media in a Single RTP Session", Magnus
  Westerlund, Colin Perkins, Jonathan Lennox, 2013-07-11,
  <draft-ietf-avtcore-multi-media-rtp-session-03.txt>

      This document specifies how an RTP session can contain media streams
      with media from multiple media types such as audio, video, and text.
      This has been restricted by the RTP Specification, and thus this
      document updates RFC 3550 and RFC 3551 to enable this behaviour for
      applications that satisfy the applicability for using multiple media
      types in a single RTP session.

  "Multimedia Congestion Control: Circuit Breakers for Unicast RTP
  Sessions", Colin Perkins, Varun Singh, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-ietf-avtcore-rtp-circuit-breakers-03.txt>

      The Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) is widely used in telephony,
      video conferencing, and telepresence applications.  Such applications
      are often run on best-effort UDP/IP networks.  If congestion control
      is not implemented in the applications, then network congestion will
      deteriorate the user's multimedia experience.  This document does not
      propose a congestion control algorithm; instead, it defines a minimal
      set of RTP "circuit-breakers".  Circuit-breakers are conditions under
      which an RTP sender needs to stop transmitting media data in order to
      protect the network from excessive congestion.  It is expected that,
      in the absence of severe congestion, all RTP applications running on
      best-effort IP networks will be able to run without triggering these
      circuit breakers.  Any future RTP congestion control specification
      will be expected to operate within the constraints defined by these
      circuit breakers.

  "RTP Topologies", Magnus Westerlund, Stephan Wenger, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-avtcore-rtp-topologies-update-01.txt>

      This document discusses point to point and multi-endpoint topologies
      used in Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP)-based environments.  In
      particular, centralized topologies commonly employed in the video
      conferencing industry are mapped to the RTP terminology.
      
      This document is updated with additional topologies and is intended
      to replace RFC 5117.

  "Guidelines for using the Multiplexing Features of RTP to Support
  Multiple Media Streams", Magnus Westerlund, BoB, Colin Perkins, Harald
  Alvestrand, 2013-07-15, <draft-ietf-avtcore-multiplex-guidelines-01.txt>

      The Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) is a flexible protocol that
      can be used in a wide range of applications, networks, and system
      topologies.  That flexibility makes for wide applicability, but can
      complicate the application design process.  One particular design
      question that has received much attention is how to support multiple
      media streams in RTP.  This memo discusses the available options and
      design trade-offs, and provides guidelines on how to use the
      multiplexing features of RTP to support multiple media streams.

  "Sending Multiple Media Streams in a Single RTP Session", Jonathan
  Lennox, Magnus Westerlund, Wenson Wu, Colin Perkins, 2013-07-11,
  <draft-ietf-avtcore-rtp-multi-stream-01.txt>

      This document expands and clarifies the behavior of the Real-Time
      Transport Protocol (RTP) endpoints when they are sending multiple
      media streams in a single RTP session.  In particular, issues
      involving Real-Time Transport Control Protocol (RTCP) messages are
      described.
      
      This document updates RFC 3550 in regards to handling of multiple
      SSRCs per endpoint in RTP sessions.

  "Sending Multiple Media Streams in a Single RTP Session: Grouping RTCP
  Reception Statistics and Other Feedback", Jonathan Lennox, Magnus
  Westerlund, Wenson Wu, Colin Perkins, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-ietf-avtcore-rtp-multi-stream-optimisation-00.txt>

      RTP allows multiple media streams to be sent in a single session, but
      requires each Synchronisation Source (SSRC) to send RTCP reception
      quality reports for every other SSRC visible in the session.  This
      causes the number of RTCP reception reports to grow with the number
      of SSRCs, rather than the number of endpoints.  In many cases most of
      these RTCP reception reports are unnecessary, since all SSRCs of an
      endpoint are co-located and see the same reception quality.  This
      memo defines a Reporting Group extension to RTCP to reduce the
      reporting overhead in such scenarios.

Audio/Video Transport Extensions (avtext)
-----------------------------------------

  "Support for Multiple Clock Rates in an RTP Session", Marc
  Petit-Huguenin, Glen Zorn, 2013-09-15,
  <draft-ietf-avtext-multiple-clock-rates-10.txt>

      This document clarifies the RTP specification when different clock
      rates are used in an RTP session.  It also provides guidance on how
      to interoperate with legacy RTP implementations that use multiple
      clock rates.  It updates RFC 3550.

  "Duplicating RTP Streams", Ali Begen, Colin Perkins, 2013-10-02,
  <draft-ietf-avtext-rtp-duplication-04.txt>

      Packet loss is undesirable for real-time multimedia sessions, but can
      occur due to congestion, or other unplanned network outages.  This is
      especially true for IP multicast networks, where packet loss patterns
      can vary greatly between receivers.  One technique that can be used
      to recover from packet loss without incurring unbounded delay for all
      the receivers is to duplicate the packets and send them in separate
      redundant streams.  This document explains how Real-time Transport
      Protocol (RTP) streams can be duplicated without breaking RTP or RTP
      Control Protocol (RTCP) rules.

Behavior Engineering for Hindrance Avoidance (behave)
-----------------------------------------------------

  "Discovery of the IPv6 Prefix Used for IPv6 Address Synthesis", Teemu
  Savolainen, Jouni Korhonen, Dan Wing, 2013-04-04,
  <draft-ietf-behave-nat64-discovery-heuristic-17.txt>

      This document describes a method for detecting the presence of DNS64
      and for learning the IPv6 prefix used for protocol translation on an
      access network.  The method depends on the existence of a well-known
      IPv4-only fully qualified domain name "ipv4only.arpa".  The
      information learned enables nodes to perform local IPv6 address
      synthesis and to potentially avoid NAT64 on dual-stack and multi-
      interface deployments.

  "Analysis of solution proposals for hosts to learn NAT64 prefix", Jouni
  Korhonen, Teemu Savolainen, 2012-03-08,
  <draft-ietf-behave-nat64-learn-analysis-03.txt>

      Hosts and applications may benefit from the knowledge if an IPv6
      address is synthesized, which would mean a NAT64 is used to reach the
      IPv4 network or Internet.  This document analyses a number of
      proposed solutions for communicating whether the synthesis is taking
      place, used address format, and the IPv6 prefix used by the NAT64 and
      DNS64.  The solutions enable both NAT64 avoidance and intentional
      utilization by allowing local IPv6 address synthesis.  The document
      concludes by recommending selection of heuristic discovery based
      solution.

Binary Floor Control Protocol Bis  (bfcpbis)
--------------------------------------------

  "The Binary Floor Control Protocol (BFCP)", Gonzalo Camarillo, Keith
  Drage, Tom Kristensen, Joerg Ott, Charles Eckel, 2013-04-26,
  <draft-ietf-bfcpbis-rfc4582bis-09.txt>

      Floor control is a means to manage joint or exclusive access to
      shared resources in a (multiparty) conferencing environment.
      Thereby, floor control complements other functions -- such as
      conference and media session setup, conference policy manipulation,
      and media control -- that are realized by other protocols.
      
      This document specifies the Binary Floor Control Protocol (BFCP).
      BFCP is used between floor participants and floor control servers,
      and between floor chairs (i.e., moderators) and floor control
      servers.
      
      This document obsoletes RFC 4582.  Changes from RFC 4582 are
      summarized in Section 16.

  "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Format for Binary Floor Control
  Protocol (BFCP) Streams", Gonzalo Camarillo, Tom Kristensen, 2013-04-26,
  <draft-ietf-bfcpbis-rfc4583bis-07.txt>

      This document specifies how to describe Binary Floor Control Protocol
      (BFCP) streams in Session Description Protocol (SDP) descriptions.
      User agents using the offer/answer model to establish BFCP streams
      use this format in their offers and answers.
      
      This document obsoletes RFC 4583.  Changes from RFC 4583 are
      summarized in Section 12.

Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (bfd)
----------------------------------------

  "BFD Management Information Base", Thomas Nadeau, Zafar Ali, Nobo Akiya,
  2013-06-26, <draft-ietf-bfd-mib-14.txt,.pdf>

      This draft defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
      for use with network management protocols in the Internet community.
      In particular, it describes managed objects for modeling
      Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) protocol.

  "Definitions of Textual Conventions (TCs) for Bidirectional Forwarding
  Detection (BFD) Management", Thomas Nadeau, Zafar Ali, Nobo Akiya,
  2013-06-19, <draft-ietf-bfd-tc-mib-02.txt,.pdf>

      This draft defines a Management Information Base (MIB) module which
      contains Textual Conventions to represent commonly used Bidirectional
      Forwarding Detection (BFD) management information.  The intent is
      that these TEXTUAL CONVENTIONS (TCs) will be imported and used in BFD
      related MIB modules that would otherwise define their own
      representations.

  "BFD Generic Cryptographic Authentication", Manav Bhatia, Vishwas
  Manral, Dacheng Zhang, 2013-10-15,
  <draft-ietf-bfd-generic-crypto-auth-05.txt>

      This document proposes an extension to Bidirectional Forwarding
      Detection (BFD) to allow the use of arbitary cryptographic
      authentication algorithms in addition to the already-documented
      authentication schemes described in the base specification.  This
      document adds the basic infrastructure that is required for
      supporting algorithm and key agility for BFD.

  "BFD for Multipoint Networks", Dave Katz, David Ward, 2013-05-17,
  <draft-ietf-bfd-multipoint-02.txt>

      This document describes extensions to the Bidirectional Forwarding
      Detection (BFD) protocol for its use in multipoint and multicast
      networks.  Comments on this draft should be directed to
      rtg-bfd@ietf.org.

  "Authenticating BFD using HMAC-SHA-2 procedures", Dacheng Zhang, Manav
  Bhatia, Vishwas Manral, 2013-10-15, <draft-ietf-bfd-hmac-sha-04.txt>

      This document describes the mechanism to authenticate Bidirectional
      Forwarding Detection (BFD) protocol packets using Hashed Message
      Authentication Mode (HMAC) with the SHA-256, SHA-384, and SHA-512
      algorithms.  The described mechanism uses the Generic Cryptographic
      Authentication and Generic Meticulous Cryptographic Authentication
      sections to carry the authentication data.  This document updates,
      but does not supercede, the cryptographic authentication mechanism
      specified in RFC 5880.

  "BFD Management Information Base (MIB) extensions for MPLS and MPLS-TP
  Networks", Sam Aldrin, Venkatesan Mahalingam, Kannan Sampath, Thomas
  Nadeau, 2013-06-27, <draft-ietf-bfd-mpls-mib-02.txt>

      This draft defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
      for use with network management protocols in the Internet community.
      In particular, it extends the BFD Management Information Base BFD-
      STD-MIB and describes the managed objects for modeling Bidirectional
      Forwarding Detection (BFD) protocol for MPLS and MPLS-TP networks.

  "Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) on Link Aggregation Group
  (LAG) Interfaces", Manav Bhatia, Mach Chen, Sami Boutros, Marc
  Binderberger, Jeffrey Haas, 2013-06-13, <draft-ietf-bfd-on-lags-01.txt>

      This document proposes a mechanism to run BFD on Link Aggregation
      Group (LAG) interfaces.  It does so by running an independent
      Asynchronous mode BFD session on every LAG member link.
      
      This mechanism allows the verification of member link continuity,
      either in combination with, or in absence of, LACP.  It provides a
      shorter detection time than what LACP offers.  The continuity check
      can also cover elements of layer 3 bidirectional forwarding.
      
      This mechanism utilizes a well-known UDP port distinct from that of
      single-hop BFD over IP.  This new UDP port removes the ambiguity of
      BFD over LAG packets from BFD over single-hop IP.

Basic Level of Interoperability for SIP Services (bliss)
--------------------------------------------------------

  "Shared Appearances of a Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Address of
  Record (AOR)", Alan Johnston, Mohsen Soroushnejad, Venkatesh
  Venkataramanan, 2013-01-16, <draft-ietf-bliss-shared-appearances-15.txt>

      This document describes the requirements and implementation of a
      group telephony feature commonly known as Bridged Line Appearance
      (BLA) or Multiple Line Appearance (MLA), or Shared Call/Line
      Appearance (SCA).  When implemented using the Session Initiation
      Protocol (SIP), it is referred to as shared appearances of an Address
      of Record (AOR) since SIP does not have the concept of lines.  This
      feature is commonly offered in IP Centrex services and IP-PBX
      offerings and is likely to be implemented on SIP IP telephones and
      SIP feature servers used in a business environment.  This feature
      allows several user agents (UAs) to share a common AOR, learn about
      calls placed and received by other UAs in the group, and pick up or
      join calls within the group.  This document discusses use cases,
      lists requirements and defines extensions to implement this feature.
      This specification updates RFC3261 and RFC4235.

Benchmarking Methodology (bmwg)
-------------------------------

  "Basic BGP Convergence Benchmarking Methodology for Data Plane
  Convergence", Rajiv Papneja, Bhavani Parise, Susan Hares, Dean Lee, Ilya
  Varlashkin, 2013-07-02, <draft-ietf-bmwg-bgp-basic-convergence-00.txt>

      BGP is widely deployed and used by several service providers as the
      default Inter AS routing protocol.  It is of utmost importance to
      ensure that when a BGP peer or a downstream link of a BGP peer fails,
      the alternate paths are rapidly used and routes via these alternate
      paths are installed.  This document provides the basic BGP
      Benchmarking Methodology using existing BGP Convergence Terminology,
      RFC 4098.

Common Control and Measurement Plane (ccamp)
--------------------------------------------

  "Routing and Wavelength Assignment Information Model for Wavelength
  Switched Optical Networks", Young Lee, Greg Bernstein, Dan Li, Wataru
  Imajuku, 2013-05-13, <draft-ietf-ccamp-rwa-info-18.txt>

      This document provides a model of information needed by the routing
      and wavelength assignment (RWA) process in wavelength switched
      optical networks (WSONs).  The purpose of the information described
      in this model is to facilitate constrained lightpath computation in
      WSONs. This model takes into account compatibility constraints
      between WSON signal attributes and network elements but does not
      include constraints due to optical impairments. Aspects of this
      information that may be of use to other technologies utilizing a
      GMPLS control plane are discussed.

  "Routing and Wavelength Assignment Information Encoding for Wavelength
  Switched Optical Networks", Greg Bernstein, Young Lee, Dan Li, Wataru
  Imajuku, 2013-09-30, <draft-ietf-ccamp-rwa-wson-encode-21.txt>

      A wavelength switched optical network (WSON) requires that certain
      key information elements are made available to facilitate path
      computation and the establishment of label switching paths (LSPs).
      The information model described in "Routing and Wavelength
      Assignment Information for Wavelength Switched Optical Networks"
      shows what information is required at specific points in the WSON.
      Part of the WSON information model contains aspects that may be of
      general applicability to other technologies, while other parts are
      fairly specific to WSONs.
      
      This document provides efficient, protocol-agnostic encodings for
      the WSON specific information elements. It is intended that
      protocol-specific documents will reference this memo to describe how
      information is carried for specific uses. Such encodings can be used
      to extend GMPLS signaling and routing protocols. In addition these
      encodings could be used by other mechanisms to convey this same
      information to a path computation element (PCE).

  "GMPLS RSVP-TE Extensions for Ethernet OAM Configuration", Attila
  Takacs, Balazs Gero, Hao Long, 2013-06-15,
  <draft-ietf-ccamp-rsvp-te-eth-oam-ext-10.txt>

      The GMPLS controlled Ethernet Label Switching (GELS) work extended
      GMPLS RSVP-TE to support the establishment of Ethernet LSPs.  IEEE
      Ethernet Connectivity Fault Management (CFM) specifies an adjunct OAM
      flow to check connectivity in Ethernet networks.  CFM can be also
      used with Ethernet LSPs for fault detection and triggering recovery
      mechanisms.  The ITU-T Y.1731 specification builds on CFM and
      specifies additional OAM mechanisms, including Performance
      Monitoring, for Ethernet networks.  This document specifies
      extensions of GMPLS RSVP-TE protocol to support the setup of the
      associated Ethernet OAM entities of Ethernet LSPs, and defines the
      Ethernet technology specific TLVs based on [OAM-CONF-FWK].  This
      document supports, but does not modify, the IEEE and ITU-T OAM
      mechanisms.

  "GMPLS RSVP-TE extensions for OAM Configuration", Attila Takacs, Don
  Fedyk, He Jia, 2013-06-15,
  <draft-ietf-ccamp-oam-configuration-fwk-10.txt>

      OAM is an integral part of transport connections, hence it is
      required that OAM functions are activated/deactivated in sync with
      connection commissioning/decommissioning; avoiding spurious alarms
      and ensuring consistent operation.  In certain technologies, OAM
      entities are inherently established once the connection is set up,
      while other technologies require extra configuration to establish and
      configure OAM entities.  This document specifies extensions to
      RSVP-TE to support the establishment and configuration of OAM
      entities along with LSP signaling.

  "GMPLS OSPF Enhancement for Signal and Network Element Compatibility for
  Wavelength Switched Optical Networks", Young Lee, Greg Bernstein,
  2013-09-30, <draft-ietf-ccamp-wson-signal-compatibility-ospf-12.txt>

      This document provides GMPLS OSPF routing enhancements to support
      signal compatibility constraints associated with WSON network
      elements. These routing enhancements are required in common optical
      or hybrid electro-optical networks where not all of the optical
      signals in the network are compatible with all network elements
      participating in the network.
      
      This compatibility constraint model is applicable to common optical
      or hybrid electro optical systems such as OEO switches,
      regenerators, and wavelength converters since such systems can be
      limited to processing only certain types of WSON signals.

  "General Network Element Constraint Encoding for GMPLS Controlled
  Networks", Greg Bernstein, Young Lee, Dan Li, Wataru Imajuku,
  2013-05-06, <draft-ietf-ccamp-general-constraint-encode-11.txt>

      Generalized Multiprotocol Label Switching can be used to control a
      wide variety of technologies. In some of these technologies network
      elements and links may impose additional routing constraints such as
      asymmetric switch connectivity, non-local label assignment, and
      label range limitations on links.
      
      This document provides efficient, protocol-agnostic encodings for
      general information elements representing connectivity and label
      constraints as well as label availability. It is intended that
      protocol-specific documents will reference this memo to describe how
      information is carried for specific uses.

  "Configuration of Pro-Active Operations, Administration, and Maintenance
  (OAM) Functions for MPLS-based Transport Networks using RSVP-TE", Elisa
  Bellagamba, Loa Andersson, Pontus Skoldstrom, David Ward, Attila Takacs,
  2013-06-20, <draft-ietf-ccamp-rsvp-te-mpls-tp-oam-ext-12.txt>

      This specification describes the configuration of pro-active MPLS-TP
      (MPLS-Transport Profile) Operations, Administration, and Maintenance
      (OAM) Functions for a given LSP using a set of TLVs that are carried
      by the GMPLS RSVP-TE protocol based on [OAM-CONF-FWK].
      
      This document is a product of a joint Internet Engineering Task Force
      (IETF) / International Telecommunication Union Telecommunication
      Standardization Sector (ITU-T) effort to include an MPLS Transport
      Profile within the IETF MPLS and PWE3 architectures to support the
      capabilities and functionalities of a packet transport network.

  "Framework for GMPLS and PCE Control of G.709 Optical Transport
  Networks", Fatai Zhang, Dan Li, Han Li, Sergio Belotti, Daniele
  Ceccarelli, 2013-09-22, <draft-ietf-ccamp-gmpls-g709-framework-15.txt>

      This document provides a framework to allow the development of
      protocol extensions to support Generalized Multi-Protocol Label
      Switching (GMPLS) and Path Computation Element (PCE) control of
      Optical Transport Networks (OTN) as specified in ITU-T Recommendation
      G.709 as published in 2012.

  "Signaling Extensions for Wavelength Switched Optical Networks", Greg
  Bernstein, Sugang Xu, Young Lee, Giovanni Martinelli, Hiroaki Harai,
  2013-07-05, <draft-ietf-ccamp-wson-signaling-06.txt>

      This memo provides extensions to Generalized Multi-Protocol Label
      Switching (GMPLS) signaling for control of wavelength switched
      optical networks (WSON).  Such extensions are necessary in WSONs
      under a number of conditions including: (a) when optional
      processing, such as regeneration, must be configured to occur at
      specific nodes along a path, (b) where equipment must be configured
      to accept an optical signal with specific attributes, or (c) where
      equipment must be configured to output an optical signal with
      specific attributes. In addition this memo provides mechanisms to
      support distributed wavelength assignment with bidirectional LSPs,
      and choice in distributed wavelength assignment algorithms. These
      extensions build on previous work for the control of lambda and
      G.709 based networks.

  "OSPF-TE Extensions for General Network Element Constraints", Fatai
  Zhang, Young Lee, Jianrui Han, Greg Bernstein, Yunbin Xu, 2013-06-26,
  <draft-ietf-ccamp-gmpls-general-constraints-ospf-te-05.txt>

      Generalized Multiprotocol Label Switching can be used to control a
      wide variety of technologies including packet switching (e.g., MPLS),
      time-division (e.g., SONET/SDH, OTN), wavelength (lambdas), and
      spatial switching (e.g., incoming port or fiber to outgoing port or
      fiber). In some of these technologies network elements and links may
      impose additional routing constraints such as asymmetric switch
      connectivity, non-local label assignment, and label range
      limitations on links. This document describes OSPF routing protocol
      extensions to support these kinds of constraints under the control
      of Generalized MPLS (GMPLS).

  "RSVP-TE Extensions for Associated Bidirectional LSPs", Fei Zhang,
  Ruiquan Jing, Rakesh Gandhi, 2013-09-16,
  <draft-ietf-ccamp-mpls-tp-rsvpte-ext-associated-lsp-07.txt>

      The MPLS Transport Profile (MPLS-TP) requirements document [RFC5654],
      describes that MPLS-TP MUST support associated bidirectional point-
      to-point LSPs.
      
      This document provides a method to bind two unidirectional Label
      Switched Paths (LSPs) into an associated bidirectional LSP. The
      association is achieved by defining the new Association Types in the
      [Extended] ASSOCIATION object.

  "Evaluation of existing GMPLS encoding against G.709v3 Optical Transport
  Networks (OTN)", Sergio Belotti, Pietro Grandi, Daniele Ceccarelli,
  Diego Caviglia, Fatai Zhang, Dan Li, 2013-10-17,
  <draft-ietf-ccamp-otn-g709-info-model-12.txt>

      ITU-T recommendation G.709 [G.709-2012] has introduced new fixed and
      flexible Optical Data Unit (ODU) containers in Optical Transport
      Networks (OTNs).
      
      This document provides an evaluation of existing Generalized
      Multiprotocol Label Switching (GMPLS) routing and signaling protocols
      against the G.709-2012 OTN networks.

  "Traffic Engineering Extensions to OSPF for Generalized MPLS (GMPLS)
  Control of Evolving G.709 OTN Networks", Daniele Ceccarelli, Fatai
  Zhang, Sergio Belotti, Rajan Rao, John Drake, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-ccamp-gmpls-ospf-g709v3-10.txt>

      This document describes Open Shortest Path First - Traffic
      Engineering (OSPF-TE) routing protocol extensions to support
      Generalized MPLS (GMPLS) control of Optical Transport Networks (OTN)
      specified in ITU-T Recommendation G.709 as published in 2012.  It
      extends mechanisms defined in RFC4203.

  "Generalized Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS) Signaling Extensions
  for the evolving G.709 Optical Transport Networks Control", Fatai Zhang,
  Guoying Zhang, Sergio Belotti, Daniele Ceccarelli, Khuzema Pithewan,
  2013-09-12, <draft-ietf-ccamp-gmpls-signaling-g709v3-12.txt>

      ITU-T Recommendation G.709 [G709-2012] has introduced new Optical
      channel Data Unit (ODU) containers (ODU0, ODU4, ODU2e and ODUflex)
      and enhanced Optical Transport Networking (OTN) flexibility.
      
      This document updates the ODU-related portions of RFC4328 to provide
      the extensions to the Generalized Multi-Protocol Label Switching
      (GMPLS) signaling to control the full set of OTN features including
      ODU0, ODU4, ODU2e and ODUflex.

  "RSVP-TE Extensions for Collecting SRLG Information", Fatai Zhang, Dan
  Li, Oscar de Dios, Cyril Margaria, Matt Hartley, 2013-09-30,
  <draft-ietf-ccamp-rsvp-te-srlg-collect-03.txt>

      This document provides extensions for the Resource ReserVation
      Protocol-Traffic Engineering (RSVP-TE) to support automatic
      collection of Shared Risk Link Group (SRLG) Information for the TE
      link formed by a LSP.

  "Revised Definition of The GMPLS Switching Capability and Type Fields",
  Lou Berger, Julien Meuric, 2013-08-23,
  <draft-ietf-ccamp-swcaps-update-03.txt>

      GMPLS provides control for multiple switching technologies, and
      hierarchical switching within a technology.  GMPLS routing and
      signaling use common values to indicate switching technology type.
      These values are carried in routing in the Switching Capability
      field, and in signaling in the Switching Type field. While the
      values used in these fields are the primary indicators of the
      technology and hierarchy level being controlled, the values are
      not consistently defined and used across the different
      technologies supported by GMPLS.  This document is intended to
      resolve the inconsistent definition and use of the Switching
      Capability and Type fields by narrowly scoping the meaning and use
      of the fields.  This document updates any document that uses the
      GMPLS Switching Capability and Types fields, in particular RFC
      3471, RFC 4202, RFC 4203, and RFC 5307.

  "LSP Attribute in ERO", Cyril Margaria, Giovanni Martinelli, Steve
  Balls, Ben Wright, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-ietf-ccamp-lsp-attribute-ro-02.txt>

      LSP attributes can be specified or recorded for whole path, but they
      cannot be targeted to a specific hop.  This document proposes
      alternative ways to extend the semantic for RSVP ERO object to target
      LSP attributes to a specific hop.

  "Resource ReserVation Protocol-Traffic Engineering (RSVP-TE) Path
  Diversity using Exclude Routes", Zafar Ali, George Swallow, Clarence
  Filsfils, Matt Hartley, Ori Gerstel, Gabriele Galimberti, Kenji Kumaki,
  Ruediger Kunze, Julien Meuric, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-ietf-ccamp-lsp-diversity-02.txt>

      RFC 4874 specifies methods by which route exclusions may be
      communicated during RSVP-TE signaling in networks where precise
      explicit paths are not computed by the LSP source node. This
      document specifies signaling for additional route exclusions based
      on Paths currently existing or expected to exist within the network.

  "Resource ReserVation Protocol-Traffic Engineering (RSVP-TE) extension
  for recording TE Metric of a Label Switched Path", Zafar Ali, George
  Swallow, Clarence Filsfils, Matt Hartley, Kenji Kumaki, Ruediger Kunze,
  2013-07-13, <draft-ietf-ccamp-te-metric-recording-02.txt>

      There are many scenarios in which Traffic Engineering (TE) metrics
      such as cost, latency and latency variation associated with a
      Forwarding Adjacency (FA) or Routing Adjacency (RA) Label Switched
      Path (LSP) are not available to the ingress and egress nodes. This
      draft provides extensions for the Resource ReserVation Protocol-
      Traffic Engineering (RSVP-TE) for the support of the discovery of
      cost, latency and latency variation of an LSP.

  "GMPLS RSVP-TE Extensions for Lock Instruct and Loopback", Jie Dong,
  Mach Chen, Zhenqiang Li, Daniele Ceccarelli, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-ietf-ccamp-rsvp-te-li-lb-02.txt>

      This document specifies extensions to Resource Reservation Protocol -
      Traffic Engineering (RSVP-TE) to support Lock Instruct (LI) and
      Loopback (LB) mechanism for Label Switched Paths (LSPs).  The
      mechanisms are applicable to technologies which use Generalized
      Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS) as control plane.

  "Framework and Requirements for GMPLS based control of Flexi-grid DWDM
  networks", Oscar de Dios, Ramon Casellas, Fatai Zhang, Xihua Fu, Daniele
  Ceccarelli, Iftekhar Hussain, 2013-10-04,
  <draft-ietf-ccamp-flexi-grid-fwk-00.txt>

      This document defines a framework and the associated control plane
      requirements for the GMPLS based control of flexi-grid DWDM networks.
      To allow efficient allocation of optical spectral bandwidth for high
      bit-rate systems, the International Telecommunication Union
      Telecommunication Standardization Sector (ITU-T) has extended the
      recommendations [G.694.1] and [G.872] to include the concept of
      flexible grid.  A new DWDM grid has been developed within the ITU-T
      Study Group 15 by defining a set of nominal central frequencies,
      channel spacings and the concept of "frequency slot".  In such
      environment, a data plane connection is switched based on allocated,
      variable-sized frequency ranges within the optical spectrum.

  "Domain Subobjects for Resource ReserVation Protocol - Traffic
  Engineering (RSVP-TE)", Dhruv Dhody, Udayasree Palle, Venugopal
  Kondreddy, Ramon Casellas, 2013-10-04,
  <draft-ietf-ccamp-rsvp-te-domain-subobjects-00.txt>

      The Resource ReserVation Protocol - Traffic Engineering (RSVP-TE)
      specification [RFC3209] and the Generalized Multiprotocol Label
      Switching (GMPLS) extensions to RSVP-TE [RFC3473] allow abstract
      nodes and resources to be explicitly included in a path setup.
      Further Exclude Routes extensions [RFC4874] allow abstract nodes and
      resources to be explicitly excluded in a path setup.
      
      This document specifies new subobjects to include or exclude domains
      during path setup where domain is a collection of network elements
      within a common sphere of address management or path computational
      responsibility (such as an Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP) area or an
      Autonomous System (AS)).  Note that the use of AS as an abstract node
      representing domain is already defined in [RFC3209] and [RFC4874],
      albeit with a 2-Byte AS number.

Content Delivery Networks Interconnection (cdni)
------------------------------------------------

  "Content Distribution Network Interconnection (CDNI) Requirements", Kent
  Leung, Yiu Lee, 2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-cdni-requirements-11.txt>

      Content Delivery Networks (CDNs) are frequently used for content
      delivery.  As a result of significant growth in content delivered
      over IP networks, existing CDN providers are scaling up their
      infrastructure.  Many Network Service Providers and Enterprise
      Service Providers are also deploying their own CDNs.  To deliver
      contents from the Content Service Provider (CSP) to end users, the
      contents may traverse across multiple CDNs.  This creates a need for
      interconnecting (previously) standalone CDNs so that they can
      collectively act as a single delivery platform from the CSP to the
      end users.
      
      The goal of the present document is to outline the requirements for
      the solution and interfaces to be specified by the CDNI working
      group.

  "Framework for CDN Interconnection", Larry Peterson, Bruce Davie,
  2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-cdni-framework-06.txt,.pdf>

      This document presents a framework for Content Distribution Network
      Interconnection (CDNI).  The purpose of the framework is to provide
      an overall picture of the problem space of CDNI and to describe the
      relationships among the various components necessary to interconnect
      CDNs.  CDN Interconnection requires the specification of interfaces
      and mechanisms to address issues such as request routing,
      distribution metadata exchange, and logging information exchange
      across CDNs.  The intent of this document is to outline what each
      interface needs to accomplish, and to describe how these interfaces
      and mechanisms fit together, while leaving their detailed
      specification to other documents.  It obsoletes RFC 3466.

  "CDN Interconnect Metadata", Ben Niven-Jenkins, Rob Murray, Grant
  Watson, Matt Caulfield, Kent Leung, Kevin Ma, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-cdni-metadata-03.txt>

      The CDNI Metadata Interface enables interconnected CDNs to exchange
      content distribution metadata in order to enable content acquisition
      and delivery.  The CDNI metadata associated with a piece of content
      provides a downstream CDN with sufficient information for the
      downstream CDN to service content requests on behalf of an upstream
      CDN.  This document describes both the core set of CDNI metadata and
      the protocol for exchanging that metadata.

  "CDNI Logging Interface", Francois Le Faucheur, Gilles Bertrand, Iuniana
  Oprescu, Roy Peterkofsky, 2013-10-18, <draft-ietf-cdni-logging-08.txt>

      This memo specifies the Logging interface between a downstream CDN
      (dCDN) and an upstream CDN (uCDN) that are interconnected as per the
      CDN Interconnection (CDNI) framework.  First, it describes a
      reference model for CDNI logging.  Then, it specifies the CDNI
      Logging File format and the actual protocol for exchange of CDNI
      Logging Files.

  "CDNI Control Interface / Triggers", Rob Murray, Ben Niven-Jenkins,
  2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-cdni-control-triggers-01.txt>

      This document describes the part of the CDN Interconnect Control
      Interface that allows a CDN to trigger activity in an interconnected
      CDN that is configured to deliver content on its behalf.  The
      upstream CDN can use this mechanism to request that the downstream
      CDN pre-positions metadata or content, or that it re-validate or
      purge metadata or content.  The upstream CDN can monitor the status
      of activity that it has triggered in the downstream CDN.

  "Request Routing Redirection Interface for CDN Interconnection", Wang
  Danhua, Ben Niven-Jenkins, Xiaoyan He, Ge Chen, Wei Ni, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-cdni-redirection-01.txt>

      The Request Routing Interface comprises of (1) the asynchronous
      advertisement of footprint and capabilities by a downstream CDN that
      allows a upstream CDN to decide whether to redirect particular user
      requests to that downstream CDN; and (2) the synchronous operation of
      an upstream CDN requesting whether a downstream CDN is prepared to
      accept a user request and of a downstream CDN responding with how to
      actually redirect the user request.  This document describes an
      interface for the latter part, i.e. the CDNI request routing/
      Redirection Interface.

  "CDNI Request Routing: Footprint and Capabilities Semantics", Jan
  Seedorf, Jon Peterson, Stefano Previdi, Ray van Brandenburg, Kevin Ma,
  2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-cdni-footprint-capabilities-semantics-01.txt>

      This document tries to capture the semantics of the "Footprint and
      Capabilities Advertisement" part of the CDNI Request Routing
      interface, i.e. the desired meaning and what "Footprint and
      Capabilities Advertisement" is expected to offer within CDNI.  The
      discussion in this document has the goal to facilitate the choosing
      of one or more suitable protocols for "Footprint and Capabilities
      Advertisement" within CDNI Request Routing.

Crypto Forum Research Group (cfrg)
----------------------------------

  "The OCB Authenticated-Encryption Algorithm", Ted Krovetz, Phillip
  Rogaway, 2013-06-12, <draft-irtf-cfrg-ocb-03.txt>

      This document specifies OCB, a shared-key blockcipher-based
      encryption scheme that provides privacy and authenticity for
      plaintexts and authenticity for associated data.  This document is a
      product of the Crypto Forum Research Group (CFRG).

  "Dragonfly Key Exchange", Dan Harkins, 2013-08-27,
  <draft-irtf-cfrg-dragonfly-02.txt>

      This document specifies a key exchange using discrete logarithm
      cryptogprahy that is authenticated using a password or passphrase.
      It is resistant to active attack, passive attack, and off-line
      dictionary attack.

  "ZSS Short Signature Scheme for BN Curves", Laura Hitt, 2013-09-11,
  <draft-irtf-cfrg-zssbn-01.txt>

      This document describes the ZSS Short Signature Scheme for
      implementation from bilinear pairings on Barreto-Naerhig (BN)
      ordinary elliptic curves. The ZSS Short Signature Scheme uses general
      cryptographic hash functions such as SHA-1 or SHA-2 and is efficient
      in terms of pairing operations.

  "ZSS Short Signature Scheme", Laura Hitt, 2013-09-11,
  <draft-irtf-cfrg-zss-01.txt>

      This document describes the ZSS Short Signature Scheme for
      implementation from bilinear pairings on supersingular elliptic
      curves. The ZSS Short Signature Scheme uses general cryptographic
      hash functions such as SHA-1 or SHA-2 and is efficient in terms of
      pairing operations.

  "Augmented Password-Authenticated Key Exchange (AugPAKE)", SeongHan
  Shin, Kazukuni Kobara, 2013-09-06, <draft-irtf-cfrg-augpake-00.txt>

      This document describes a secure and highly-efficient augmented
      password-authenticated key exchange (AugPAKE) protocol where a user
      remembers a low-entropy password and its verifier is registered in
      the intended server.  In general, the user password is chosen from a
      small set of dictionary whose space is within the off-line dictionary
      attacks.  The AugPAKE protocol described here is secure against
      passive attacks, active attacks and off-line dictionary attacks (on
      the obtained messages with passive/active attacks).  Also, this
      protocol provides resistance to server compromise in the context that
      an attacker, who obtained the password verifier from the server, must
      at least perform off-line dictionary attacks to gain any advantage in
      impersonating the user.  The AugPAKE protocol is not only provably
      secure in the random oracle model but also the most efficient over
      the previous augmented PAKE protocols (SRP and AMP).

ControLling mUltiple streams for tElepresence (clue)
----------------------------------------------------

  "Use Cases for Telepresence Multi-streams", Allyn Romanow, Stephen
  Botzko, Mark Duckworth, Roni Even, 2013-09-07,
  <draft-ietf-clue-telepresence-use-cases-07.txt>

      Telepresence conferencing systems seek to create an environment that
      gives non co-located users or user groups a feeling of co-located
      presence through multimedia communication including at least audio
      and video signals of high fidelity.  A number of techniques for
      handling audio and video streams are used to create this experience.
      When these techniques are not similar, interoperability between
      different systems is difficult at best, and often not possible.
      Conveying information about the relationships between multiple
      streams of media would allow senders and receivers to make choices to
      allow telepresence systems to interwork.  This memo describes the
      most typical and important use cases for sending multiple streams in
      a telepresence conference.

  "Requirements for Telepresence Multi-Streams", Allyn Romanow, Stephen
  Botzko, Mary Barnes, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-clue-telepresence-requirements-06.txt>

      This memo discusses the requirements for specifications that enable
      telepresence interoperability, by describing the relationship between
      multiple RTP streams.  In addition, the problem statement and related
      definitions are also covered herein.

  "Framework for Telepresence Multi-Streams", Mark Duckworth, Andrew
  Pepperell, Stephan Wenger, 2013-10-19,
  <draft-ietf-clue-framework-12.txt>

      This document defines a framework for a protocol to enable devices
      in a telepresence conference to interoperate.  The protocol enables
      communication of information about multiple media streams so a
      sending system and receiving system can make reasonable decisions
      about transmitting, selecting and rendering the media streams.
      This protocol is used in addition to SIP signaling for setting up a
      telepresence session.

  "Mapping RTP streams to CLUE media captures", Roni Even, Jonathan
  Lennox, 2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-clue-rtp-mapping-01.txt>

      This document describes mechanisms and recommended practice for
      mapping RTP media streams defined in SDP to CLUE media captures.

  "An XML Schema for the CLUE data model", Roberta Presta, Simon Romano,
  2013-07-15, <draft-ietf-clue-data-model-schema-00.txt>

      This document provides an XML schema file for the definition of CLUE
      data model types.

Internet Wideband Audio Codec (codec)
-------------------------------------

  "Summary of Opus listening test results", Christian Hoene, Jean-Marc
  Valin, Koen Vos, Jan Skoglund, 2013-05-17,
  <draft-ietf-codec-results-03.txt>

      This document describes and examines listening test results obtained
      for the Opus codec and how they relate to the requirements.

  "Ogg Encapsulation for the Opus Audio Codec", Timothy Terriberry, Ron
  Lee, Ralph Giles, 2013-05-24, <draft-ietf-codec-oggopus-01.txt>

      This document defines the Ogg encapsulation for the Opus interactive
      speech and audio codec.  This allows data encoded in the Opus format
      to be stored in an Ogg logical bitstream.  Ogg encapsulation provides
      Opus with a long-term storage format supporting all of the essential
      features, including metadata, fast and accurate seeking, corruption
      detection, recapture after errors, low overhead, and the ability to
      multiplex Opus with other codecs (including video) with minimal
      buffering.  It also provides a live streamable format, capable of
      delivery over a reliable stream-oriented transport, without requiring
      all the data, or even the total length of the data, up-front, in a
      form that is identical to the on-disk storage format.

Congestion Exposure (conex)
---------------------------

  "Congestion Exposure (ConEx) Concepts and Abstract Mechanism", Matt
  Mathis, Bob Briscoe, 2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-conex-abstract-mech-08.txt>

      This document describes an abstract mechanism by which senders inform
      the network about the congestion encountered by packets earlier in
      the same flow.  Today, network elements at any layer may signal
      congestion to the receiver by dropping packets or by ECN markings,
      and the receiver passes this information back to the sender in
      transport-layer feedback.  The mechanism described here enables the
      sender to also relay this congestion information back into the
      network in-band at the IP layer, such that the total amount of
      congestion from all elements on the path is revealed to all IP
      elements along the path, where it could, for example, be used to
      provide input to traffic management.  This mechanism is called
      congestion exposure or ConEx.  The companion document "ConEx Concepts
      and Use Cases" provides the entry-point to the set of ConEx
      documentation.

  "IPv6 Destination Option for ConEx", Suresh Krishnan, Mirja Kuehlewind,
  Carlos Ucendo, 2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-conex-destopt-05.txt>

      ConEx is a mechanism by which senders inform the network about the
      congestion encountered by packets earlier in the same flow.  This
      document specifies an IPv6 destination option that is capable of
      carrying ConEx markings in IPv6 datagrams.

  "TCP modifications for Congestion Exposure", Mirja Kuehlewind, Richard
  Scheffenegger, 2013-07-15, <draft-ietf-conex-tcp-modifications-04.txt>

      Congestion Exposure (ConEx) is a mechanism by which senders inform
      the network about the congestion encountered by previous packets on
      the same flow.  This document describes the necessary modifications
      to use ConEx with the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP).

  "Mobile Communication Congestion Exposure Scenario", Dirk Kutscher,
  Faisal Mir, Rolf Winter, Suresh Krishnan, Ying Zhang, Carlos Bernardos,
  2013-07-15, <draft-ietf-conex-mobile-02.txt>

      This memo describes a mobile communications use case for congestion
      exposure (CONEX) with a particular focus on mobile communication
      networks such as the 3GPP Evolved Packet System (EPS).  The draft
      provides a brief overview of the architecture of these networks (both
      access and core networks), current QoS mechanisms and then discusses
      how congestion exposure concepts could be applied.  Based on this,
      this memo suggests a set of requirements for CONEX mechanisms that
      particularly apply to mobile networks.

Constrained RESTful Environments (core)
---------------------------------------

  "Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP)", Zach Shelby, Klaus Hartke,
  Carsten Bormann, 2013-06-28, <draft-ietf-core-coap-18.txt>

      The Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) is a specialized web
      transfer protocol for use with constrained nodes and constrained
      (e.g., low-power, lossy) networks.  The nodes often have 8-bit
      microcontrollers with small amounts of ROM and RAM, while constrained
      networks such as 6LoWPAN often have high packet error rates and a
      typical throughput of 10s of kbit/s.  The protocol is designed for
      machine-to-machine (M2M) applications such as smart energy and
      building automation.
      
      CoAP provides a request/response interaction model between
      application endpoints, supports built-in discovery of services and
      resources, and includes key concepts of the Web such as URIs and
      Internet media types.  CoAP is designed to easily interface with HTTP
      for integration with the Web while meeting specialized requirements
      such as multicast support, very low overhead and simplicity for
      constrained environments.

  "Blockwise transfers in CoAP", Carsten Bormann, Zach Shelby, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-core-block-14.txt>

      CoAP is a RESTful transfer protocol for constrained nodes and
      networks.  Basic CoAP messages work well for the small payloads we
      expect from temperature sensors, light switches, and similar
      building-automation devices.  Occasionally, however, applications
      will need to transfer larger payloads -- for instance, for
      firmware updates.  With HTTP, TCP does the grunt work of slicing
      large payloads up into multiple packets and ensuring that they all
      arrive and are handled in the right order.
      
      CoAP is based on datagram transports such as UDP or DTLS, which
      limits the maximum size of resource representations that can be
      transferred without too much fragmentation.  Although UDP supports
      larger payloads through IP fragmentation, it is limited to 64 KiB
      and, more importantly, doesn't really work well for constrained
      applications and networks.
      
      Instead of relying on IP fragmentation, this specification extends
      basic CoAP with a pair of "Block" options, for transferring multiple
      blocks of information from a resource representation in multiple
      request-response pairs.  In many important cases, the Block options
      enable a server to be truly stateless: the server can handle each
      block transfer separately, with no need for a connection setup or
      other server-side memory of previous block transfers.
      
      In summary, the Block options provide a minimal way to transfer
      larger representations in a block-wise fashion.

  "Observing Resources in CoAP", Klaus Hartke, 2013-10-15,
  <draft-ietf-core-observe-11.txt>

      CoAP is a RESTful application protocol for constrained nodes and
      networks.  The state of a resource on a CoAP server can change over
      time.  This document specifies a simple protocol extension for CoAP
      that enables CoAP clients to "observe" resources, i.e., to retrieve
      a representation of a resource and keep this representation updated
      by the server over a period of time.  The protocol follows a best-
      effort approach for sending new representations to clients and
      provides eventual consistency between the state observed by each
      client and the actual resource state at the server.

  "Group Communication for CoAP", Akbar Rahman, Esko Dijk, 2013-10-02,
  <draft-ietf-core-groupcomm-16.txt>

      CoAP is a specialized web transfer protocol for constrained devices
      and constrained networks.  It is anticipated that constrained devices
      will often naturally operate in groups (e.g., in a building
      automation scenario all lights in a given room may need to be
      switched on/off as a group).  This document provides guidance for how
      the CoAP protocol should be used in a group communication context.
      An approach for using CoAP on top of IP multicast is detailed.  Also,
      various use cases and corresponding protocol flows are provided to
      illustrate important concepts.  Finally, guidance is provided for
      deployment in various network topologies.

  "Representing CoRE Link Collections in JSON", Carsten Bormann,
  2013-06-02, <draft-ietf-core-links-json-00.txt>

      Web Linking (RFC5988) provides a way to represent links between Web
      resources as well as the relations expressed by them and attributes
      of such a link.  In constrained networks, a collection of Web links
      can be exchanged in the CoRE link format (RFC6690).  Outside of
      constrained environments, it may be useful to represent these
      collections of Web links in JSON format (RFC4627).
      
      This specification defines a common format for representing Web links
      in JSON format.

  "CoRE Resource Directory", Zach Shelby, Srdjan Krco, Carsten Bormann,
  2013-06-03, <draft-ietf-core-resource-directory-00.txt>

      In many M2M applications, direct discovery of resources is not
      practical due to sleeping nodes, disperse networks, or networks where
      multicast traffic is inefficient.  These problems can be solved by
      employing an entity called a Resource Directory (RD), which hosts
      descriptions of resources held on other servers, allowing lookups to
      be performed for those resources.  This document specifies the web
      interfaces that a Resource Directory supports in order for web
      servers to discover the RD and to register, maintain, lookup and
      remove resources descriptions.  Furthermore, new link attributes
      useful in conjunction with an RD are defined.

  "CoRE Interfaces", Zach Shelby, Matthieu Vial, 2013-06-03,
  <draft-ietf-core-interfaces-00.txt>

      This document defines well-known REST interface descriptions for
      Batch, Sensor, Parameter and Actuator types for use in contrained web
      servers using the CoRE Link Format.  A short reference is provided
      for each type that can be efficiently included in the interface
      description attribute of the CoRE Link Format.  These descriptions
      are intended to be for general use in resource designs or for
      inclusion in more specific interface profiles.  In addition, this
      document defines the concepts of Function Set and Binding.  The
      former is the basis element to create RESTful profiles and the latter
      helps the configuration of links between resources located on one or
      more endpoints.

  "Guidelines for HTTP-CoAP Mapping Implementations", Angelo Castellani,
  Salvatore Loreto, Akbar Rahman, Thomas Fossati, Esko Dijk, 2013-10-12,
  <draft-ietf-core-http-mapping-02.txt>

      This draft provides reference information for HTTP-CoAP protocol
      translation proxy implementors, focusing primarily on the reverse
      proxy case.  It details deployment options, defines a safe method for
      URI mapping, and provides a set of guidelines and considerations
      related to protocol translation.

Call Control UUI Service for SIP (cuss)
---------------------------------------

  "A Mechanism for Transporting User to User Call Control Information in
  SIP", Alan Johnston, James Rafferty, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-ietf-cuss-sip-uui-11.txt>

      There is a class of applications which benefit from using SIP to
      exchange User to User Information (UUI) data during session
      establishment.  This information, known as call control UUI data, is
      a small piece of data inserted by an application initiating the
      session, and utilized by an application accepting the session.  The
      rules which apply for a specific application are defined by a UUI
      package.  This UUI data is opaque to SIP and its function is
      unrelated to any basic SIP function.  This document defines a new SIP
      header field, User-to-User, to transport UUI data, along with an
      extension mechanism.

  "Interworking ISDN Call Control User Information with SIP", Keith Drage,
  Alan Johnston, 2013-08-04, <draft-ietf-cuss-sip-uui-isdn-05.txt>

      The motivation and use cases for interworking and transporting ITU-T
      DSS1 User-user information element data in SIP are described in the
      "Problem Statement and Requirements for Transporting User to User
      Call Control Information in SIP" document.  As networks move to SIP
      it is important that applications requiring this data can continue to
      function in SIP networks as well as the ability to interwork with
      this ISDN service for end-to- end transparency.  This document
      defines a usage (a new package) of the User-to-User header field to
      enable interworking with this ISDN service.
      
      This document covers the interworking with both public ISDN and
      private ISDN capabilities, so the potential interworking with QSIG
      will also be addressed.
      
      The package is identified by a new value "isdn-uui" of the "purpose"
      header field parameter.

DNS-based Authentication of Named Entities (dane)
-------------------------------------------------

  "Using Secure DNS to Associate Certificates with Domain Names For
  S/MIME", Paul Hoffman, Jakob Schlyter, 2013-07-09,
  <draft-ietf-dane-smime-02.txt>

      This document describes how to use secure DNS to associate an S/MIME
      user's certificate with the intended domain name, similar to the way
      that DANE (RFC 6698) does for TLS.

  "Adding acronyms to simplify DANE conversations", Olafur Gudmundsson,
  2013-10-18, <draft-ietf-dane-registry-acronyms-01.txt>

      Experience has show that people get confused using the three numeric
      fields the TLSA record.  This document specifies descriptive acronyms
      for the three numeric fields in the TLSA records.

  "DANE TLSA implementation and operational guidance", Viktor Dukhovni,
  Wesley Hardaker, 2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-dane-ops-01.txt>

      This memo provides operational guidance to server operators to help
      ensure that clients will be able to authenticate a server's
      certificate chain via published TLSA records.  Guidance is also
      provided to clients for selecting reliable TLSA record parameters and
      how to use them for server authentication.  Finally, guidance is
      given to protocol designers who wish to make use of TLSA records when
      securing protocols using a TLS and TLSA combination.

  "SMTP security via opportunistic DANE TLS", Viktor Dukhovni, Wesley
  Hardaker, 2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-dane-smtp-with-dane-02.txt>

      This memo describes a protocol for opportunistic TLS security based
      on the DANE TLSA DNS record.  The protocol is downgrade resistant
      when the SMTP client supports DANE TLSA and the server domain
      publishes TLSA records for its MX hosts.  This enables an incremental
      transition of the Internet email backbone (MTA to MTA SMTP traffic)
      to TLS encrypted and authenticated delivery.

Dynamic Host Configuration (dhc)
--------------------------------

  "Guidelines for Creating New DHCPv6 Options", David Hankins, Tomek
  Mrugalski, Marcin Siodelski, Sheng Jiang, Suresh Krishnan, 2013-09-19,
  <draft-ietf-dhc-option-guidelines-14.txt>

      This document provides guidance to prospective DHCPv6 Option
      developers to help them creating option formats that are easily
      adoptable by existing DHCPv6 software.  This document updates
      RFC3315.

  "DHCPv4 over IPv6 Transport", Yong Cui, Peng Wu, Jianping Wu, Ted Lemon,
  Qi Sun, 2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-dhc-dhcpv4-over-ipv6-08.txt>

      In IPv6 networks, there remains a need to provide IPv4 service for
      some residual devices.  This document describes a mechanism for
      allocating IPv4 addresses to such devices, using DHCPv4 with an IPv6
      transport.  It is done by putting a special relay agent function
      (Client Relay Agent) on the client side, as well as extending the
      behavior of the server; in the case where DHCP server only supports
      IPv4 transport, a relay agent is extended to support IPv6 transport
      (IPv6-Transport Relay Agent) and relay DHCP traffic for the server,
      with a new Relay Agent Information sub-option added to carry the IPv6
      address of the Client Relay Agent.  DHCPv4 over IPv6 has been
      developed in the IETF, and some implementations and deployments have
      been carried out.  But this mechanism is not recommended for future
      implementation or deployment.

  "Issues with multiple stateful DHCPv6 options", Ole Troan, Bernie Volz,
  2013-05-13, <draft-ietf-dhc-dhcpv6-stateful-issues-04.txt>

      Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6 (DHCPv6) was not written
      with the expectation that additional stateful DHCPv6 options would be
      developed.  IPv6 Prefix Options for Dynamic Host Configuration
      Protocol (DHCP) version 6 shoe-horned the new options for Prefix
      Delegation into DHCPv6.  Implementation experience of the CPE model
      described in [RFC6204] has shown multiple issues with the DHCPv6
      protocol in supporting multiple stateful options.

  "Registering self-generated IPv6 Addresses in DNS using DHCPv6", Sheng
  Jiang, Gang Chen, Suresh Krishnan, 2013-08-29,
  <draft-ietf-dhc-addr-registration-03.txt>

      In networks that are centrally managed, self-generated addresses
      cause some traceability issues due to their decentralized nature.
      One of the most important issues in this regard is the inability to
      register such addresses in DNS.  This document defines a mechanism to
      register self-generated addresses in DNS through a DHCPv6 server.

  "DHCPv6 Failover Design", Tomek Mrugalski, Kim Kinnear, 2013-09-13,
  <draft-ietf-dhc-dhcpv6-failover-design-04.txt>

      DHCPv6 defined in [RFC3315] does not offer server redundancy.  This
      document defines a design for DHCPv6 failover, a mechanism for
      running two servers on the same network with capability for either
      server to take over clients' leases in case of server failure or
      network partition.  This is a DHCPv6 Failover design document, it is
      not a protocol specification document.  It is a second document in a
      planned series of three documents.  DHCPv6 failover requirements are
      specified in [I-D.ietf-dhc-dhcpv6-failover-requirements].  A protocol
      specification document is planned to follow this document.

  "Prefix Pool Option for DHCPv6 Relay Agent on the Provider Edge
  Routers",  leaf.yeh.sdo@gmail.com, Ted Lemon, Mohamed Boucadair,
  2013-04-25, <draft-ietf-dhc-dhcpv6-prefix-pool-opt-03.txt>

      The DHCPv6 Prefix Pool option provides a mechanism for DHCPv6 Prefix
      Delegation (DHCPv6-PD), allowing the DHCPv6 server to notify a DHCPv6
      relay agent implemented on a Provider Edge (PE) router about active
      prefix pools allocated by the DHCPv6 server to the PE router.  The
      information of active prefix pools can be used to enforce IPv6 route
      aggregation on the PE router through adding or removing aggregation
      routes according to the status of the prefix pools.  The advertising
      of the aggregation routes in the routing protocol enabled on the
      network-facing interface of PE routers will dramatically decreases
      the number of the routing table entries in the ISP network.

  "Modification to Default Values of SOL_MAX_RT and INF_MAX_RT", Ralph
  Droms, 2013-09-14, <draft-ietf-dhc-dhcpv6-solmaxrt-update-05.txt>

      This document updates RFC 3315 by redefining the default values for
      SOL_MAX_RT and INF_MAX_RT, and defining options through which a
      DHCPv6 server can override the client's default value for SOL_MAX_RT
      and INF_MAX_RT with new values.

  "Populating the DNS Reverse Tree for DHCP Delegated Prefixes", Ted
  Lemon, 2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-dhc-dns-pd-01.txt>

      This document describes three alternatives for populating the DNS
      reverse tree for prefixes delegated using DHCP, and provides
      mechanisms for implementing each alternative.

  "Handling Unknown DHCPv6 Messages", Yong Cui, Qi Sun, Ted Lemon,
  2013-09-25, <draft-ietf-dhc-dhcpv6-unknown-msg-02.txt>

      Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol version 6 (DHCPv6) isn't specific
      about handling messages with unknown types.  This memo describes the
      problems and defines how a DHCPv6 function node should behave in this
      case.  This document updates RFC3315.

  "DHCPv4 over DHCPv6 Transport", Qi Sun, Yong Cui, Marcin Siodelski,
  Suresh Krishnan, Ian Farrer, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-ietf-dhc-dhcpv4-over-dhcpv6-02.txt>

      IPv4 connectivity is still needed as networks migrate towards IPv6.
      Users require IPv4 configuration even if the uplink to their service
      provider supports IPv6 only.  This document describes a mechanism for
      obtaining IPv4 configuration information dynamically in IPv6 networks
      by carrying DHCPv4 messages over DHCPv6 transport.  Two new DHCPv6
      messages as well as a new DHCPv6 option are defined for the purpose
      of conveying DHCPv4 messages through IPv6 networks.

  "Provisioning IPv4 Configuration Over IPv6 Only Networks", Branimir
  Rajtar, Ian Farrer, 2013-09-30, <draft-ietf-dhc-v4configuration-02.txt>

      As IPv6 becomes more widely adopted, some service providers are
      taking the approach of deploying IPv6 only networks, without dual-
      stack functionality for IPv4.  However, access to IPv4 based services
      is still an ongoing requirement and approaches such as IPv4-in-IPv6
      softwire tunnels are being developed to meet this need.
      
      In order to provision end-user's hosts with the necessary IPv4
      configuration, a number of different mechanisms have been proposed.
      This memo discusses the benefits and drawbacks of each, with the aim
      of recommending a single approach as the basis for future work.

  "Access-Network-Identifier Option in DHCP", Cisco Systems, Sri
  Gundavelli, Jouni Korhonen, Mark Grayson, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-dhc-access-network-identifier-01.txt>

      This document specifies the format and mechanism for encoding access
      network identifiers in DHCPv4 and DHCPv6 messages by defining new
      access network identifier options and sub-options.

  "Customizing DHCP Configuration on the Basis of Network Topology", Ted
  Lemon, Tomek Mrugalski, 2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-dhc-topo-conf-00.txt>

      DHCP servers have evolved over the years to provide significant
      functionality beyond that which is described in the DHCP base
      specifications.  One aspect of this functionality is support for
      context-specific configuration information.  This memo describes some
      such features and makes recommendations as to how they can be used.

Diameter Maintenance and Extensions (dime)
------------------------------------------

  "Diameter Applications Design Guidelines", Lionel Morand, Victor
  Fajardo, Hannes Tschofenig, 2013-10-04,
  <draft-ietf-dime-app-design-guide-20.txt>

      The Diameter base protocol provides facilities for protocol
      extensibility enabling to define new Diameter applications or modify
      existing applications.  This document is a companion document to the
      Diameter Base protocol that further explains and clarifies the rules
      to extend Diameter.  It is meant as a guidelines document and
      therefore as informative in nature.

  "Realm-Based Redirection In Diameter", Tina Tsou, Ruibing Hao, Tom
  Taylor, 2013-10-02, <draft-ietf-dime-realm-based-redirect-13.txt>

      The Diameter protocol includes a capability for message redirection,
      controlled by an application-independent "redirect agent".  In some
      circumstances, an operator may wish to redirect messages to an
      alternate domain without specifying individual hosts.  This document
      specifies an application-specific mechanism by which a Diameter
      server or proxy (node) can perform such a redirection when S-NAPTR is
      not used for dynamic peer discovery.  A node performing this new
      function is referred to as a "Realm-based Redirect Server".
      
      This memo updates Sections 6.13 and 6.14 of RFC6733 with respect to
      the usage of the Redirect-Host-Usage and Redirect-Max-Cache-Time
      AVPs.

  "Diameter Support for Proxy Mobile IPv6 Localized Routing", Glen Zorn,
  Wenson Wu, Jouni Korhonen, 2012-08-01, <draft-ietf-dime-pmip6-lr-18.txt>

      In Proxy Mobile IPv6, packets received from a Mobile Node (MN) by the
      Mobile Access Gateway (MAG) to which it is attached are typically
      tunneled to a Local Mobility Anchor (LMA) for routing.  The term
      "localized routing" refers to a method by which packets are routed
      directly between an MN's MAG and the MAG of its Correspondent Node
      (CN) without involving any LMA.  In a Proxy Mobile IPv6 deployment,
      it may be desirable to control the establishment of localized routing
      sessions between two MAGs in a Proxy Mobile IPv6 domain by requiring
      that the session be authorized.  This document specifies how to
      accomplish this using the Diameter protocol.

  "Diameter Network Access Server Application", Glen Zorn, 2013-05-13,
  <draft-ietf-dime-rfc4005bis-13.txt>

      This document describes the Diameter protocol application used for
      Authentication, Authorization, and Accounting (AAA) services in the
      Network Access Server (NAS) environment; it obsoletes RFC 4005.  When
      combined with the Diameter Base protocol, Transport Profile, and
      Extensible Authentication Protocol specifications, this application
      specification satisfies typical network access services requirements.

  "Diameter Group Signaling", Mark Jones, Marco Liebsch, Lionel Morand,
  2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-dime-group-signaling-02.txt>

      In large network deployments, a single Diameter peer can support over
      a million concurrent Diameter sessions.  Recent use cases have
      revealed the need for Diameter peers to apply the same operation to a
      large group of Diameter sessions concurrently.  The Diameter base
      protocol commands operate on a single session so these use cases
      could result in many thousands of command exchanges to enforce the
      same operation on each session in the group.  In order to reduce
      signaling, it would be desirable to enable bulk operations on all (or
      part of) the sessions managed by a Diameter peer using a single or a
      few command exchanges.  This document specifies the Diameter protocol
      extensions to achieve this signaling optimization.

  "Diameter Overload Control Requirements", Eric McMurry, Ben Campbell,
  2013-09-30, <draft-ietf-dime-overload-reqs-13.txt>

      When a Diameter server or agent becomes overloaded, it needs to be
      able to gracefully reduce its load, typically by informing clients to
      reduce sending traffic for some period of time.  Otherwise, it must
      continue to expend resources parsing and responding to Diameter
      messages, possibly resulting in a progressively more severe overload
      condition.  The existing Diameter mechanisms are not sufficient for
      this purpose.  This document describes the limitations of the
      existing mechanisms.  Requirements for new overload management
      mechanisms are also provided.

  "Diameter AVP Level Security: Scenarios and Requirements", Hannes
  Tschofenig, Jouni Korhonen, Glen Zorn, Kervin Pillay, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-tschofenig-dime-e2e-sec-req-01.txt>

      This specification discusses requirements for providing Diameter
      security at the level of individual Attribute Value Pairs.

  "Diameter AVP Level Security: Scenarios and Requirements", Hannes
  Tschofenig, Jouni Korhonen, Glen Zorn, Kervin Pillay, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-ietf-dime-e2e-sec-req-01.txt>

      This specification discusses requirements for providing Diameter
      security at the level of individual Attribute Value Pairs.

Distributed Mobility Management (dmm)
-------------------------------------

  "Requirements for Distributed Mobility Management", Anthony Chan, Dapeng
  Liu, Pierrick Seite, Hidetoshi Yokota, Jouni Korhonen, 2013-09-28,
  <draft-ietf-dmm-requirements-09.txt,.pdf>

      This document defines the requirements for Distributed Mobility
      Management (DMM).  The hierarchical structure in traditional wireless
      networks has led primarily to centralized deployment models.  As some
      wireless networks are evolving away from the hierarchical structure,
      such as in moving the content delivery servers closer to the users, a
      distributed model for mobility management can be useful to them.

  "Distributed Mobility Management: Current practices and gap analysis",
  Dapeng Liu, Juan-Carlos Ziga, Pierrick Seite, Anthony Chan, Carlos
  Bernardos, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-dmm-best-practices-gap-analysis-02.txt>

      The present document analyses deplyment practices of existing
      mobility protocols in a distributed mobility management environment.
      It also identifies some limitations compared to the expected
      functionality of a fully distributed mobility management system.  The
      comparison is made taking into account the identified DMM
      requirements.

Domain Name System Operations (dnsop)
-------------------------------------

  "Initializing a DNS Resolver with Priming Queries", Peter Koch, Matt
  Larson, 2013-07-15, <draft-ietf-dnsop-resolver-priming-03.txt>

      This document describes the initial queries a DNS resolver is
      supposed to emit to initialize its cache with a current NS RRSet for
      the root zone as well as the necessary address information.

Data for Reachability of Inter/tra-NetworK SIP (drinks)
-------------------------------------------------------

  "Session Peering Provisioning (SPP) Protocol over SOAP", Kenneth
  Cartwright, Vikas Bhatia, Jean-Francois Mule, Alexander Mayrhofer,
  2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-drinks-spp-protocol-over-soap-05.txt>

      The Session Peering Provisioning Framework (SPPF) specifies the data
      model and the overall structure to provision session establishment
      data into Session Data Registries and SIP Service Provider data
      stores.  To utilize this framework one needs a transport protocol.
      Given that Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) is currently widely
      used for messaging between elements of such provisioning systems,
      this document specifies the usage of SOAP (via HTTPS) as the
      transport protocol for SPPF.  The benefits include leveraging
      prevalent expertise, and a higher probability that existing
      provisioning systems will be able to easily migrate to using an SPPF
      based protocol.

  "Session Peering Provisioning Framework (SPPF)", Kenneth Cartwright,
  Vikas Bhatia, Syed Ali, David Schwartz, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-drinks-spp-framework-06.txt>

      This document specifies the data model and the overall structure for
      a framework to provision session establishment data into Session Data
      Registries and SIP Service Provider data stores.  The framework is
      called the Session Peering Provisioning Framework (SPPF).  The
      provisioned data is typically used by network elements for session
      establishment.

Delay-Tolerant Networking Research Group (dtnrg)
------------------------------------------------

  "Delay Tolerant Networking TCP Convergence Layer Protocol", Michael
  Demmer, Joerg Ott, Simon Perreault, 2013-09-13,
  <draft-irtf-dtnrg-tcp-clayer-07.txt>

      This document describes the protocol for the TCP-based Convergence
      Layer for Delay Tolerant Networking (DTN).

  "Bundle Protocol Extended Class Of Service (ECOS)", Scott Burleigh,
  2013-07-01, <draft-irtf-dtnrg-ecos-05.txt>

      This document describes an extension to the Delay-Tolerant Networking
      (DTN) Bundle Protocol (BP) that marks bundles with class-of-service
      designators beyond those defined for the BP primary block.  The
      extended class-of-service designators are an "ordinal" number that
      provides fine-grained prioritization of bundles, a "critical" flag,
      flags that explicitly request "timely" or "assured" convergence-layer
      transmission (or both), and an optional flow label.

  "Datagram Convergence Layers for the DTN Bundle and LTP Protocols", Hans
  Kruse, Samuel Jero, Shawn Ostermann, 2013-10-17,
  <draft-irtf-dtnrg-dgram-clayer-05.txt>

      This document is a product of the Delay- and Distruption-Tolerant
      Networking Research Group (DTNRG), and represents the consensus of
      the DTNRG.  It specifies the preferred method for transporting Delay-
      and Disruption-Tolerant Networking (DTN) protocol data over the
      Internet using datagrams.  The specification covers convergence
      layers for the Bundle Protocol (RFC 5050) as well as the
      transportation of Licklider Transmission Protocol (LTP) (RFC 5326)
      segments.  UDP and the Datagram Congestion Control Protocol (DCCP)
      are the candidate datagram protocols discussed.  UDP can only be used
      on a local network, or in cases where the DTN node implements
      explicit congestion control.  DCCP addresses the congestion control
      problem, and its use is recommended whenever possible.

  "Streamlined Bundle Security Protocol Specification", Edward Birrane,
  2013-07-14, <draft-irtf-dtnrg-sbsp-00.txt>

      This document defines a streamlined bundle security protocol, which
      provides data authentication, integrity, and confidentiality services
      for the Bundle Protocol.  Capabilities are provided to protect the
      bundle payload, and additional data that may be included within the
      bundle, along a single path through a network.

  "Delay Tolerant Network Management Protocol", Edward Birrane, Vignesh
  Ramachandran, 2013-09-30, <draft-irtf-dtnrg-dtnmp-00.txt>

      This draft describes the Delay/Disruption Tolerant Network Management
      Protocol (DTNMP).  The DTNMP provides monitoring and configuration
      features between managing devices and those managed devices operating
      on the far side of high-delay or high-disruption links.  The protocol
      is designed to minimize the number of transmitted bytes, operate
      without sessions or (concurrent) two-way links, and to function
      autonomously when there is no timely contact with a network operator.

  "Contact Graph Routing Extension Block", Edward Birrane, 2013-09-30,
  <draft-irtf-dtnrg-cgreb-00.txt>

      This draft describes an extension block used to convey path
      information in networks using Contact Graph Routing (CGR).  The CGR
      Extension Block (CGR-EB) captures the set of contacts comprising the
      message path calculated by a CGR agent prior to forwarding a message.

Emergency Context Resolution with Internet Technologies (ecrit)
---------------------------------------------------------------

  "Trustworthy Location", Hannes Tschofenig, Henning Schulzrinne, Bernard
  Aboba, 2013-07-30, <draft-ietf-ecrit-trustworthy-location-07.txt>

      For some location-based applications, such as emergency calling or
      roadside assistance, the trustworthiness of location information is
      critically important.
      
      This document describes how to convey location in a manner that is
      inherently secure and reliable.  It also provides guidelines for
      assessing the trustworthiness of location information.

  "Extensions to the Emergency Services Architecture for dealing with
  Unauthenticated and Unauthorized Devices", Henning Schulzrinne, Stephen
  McCann, Gabor Bajko, Hannes Tschofenig, Dirk Kroeselberg, 2013-10-19,
  <draft-ietf-ecrit-unauthenticated-access-08.txt>

      The IETF emergency services architecture assumes that the calling
      device has acquired rights to use the access network or that no
      authentication is required for the access network, such as for public
      wireless access points.  Subsequent protocol interactions, such as
      obtaining location information, learning the address of the Public
      Safety Answering Point (PSAP) and the emergency call itself are
      largely decoupled from the underlying network access procedures.
      
      In some cases, however, the device does not have these credentials
      for network access, does not have a VoIP service provider, or the
      credentials have become invalid, e.g., because the user has exhausted
      their prepaid balance or the account has expired.
      
      With features provided by the Public Switched Telephone Network
      (PSTN) there is precedence for some of these use cases and the
      transition to IP-based emergency calling creates the desire to
      replicate functionality the PSTN already offers today.  For example,
      in many countries persons seeking help are empowered to initiate
      emergency calls without having a Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) in
      their mobile phone.
      
      This document provides a problem statement, introduces terminology
      and describes an extension for the base IETF emergency services
      architecture to address these scenarios.

  "Data-Only Emergency Calls", Brian Rosen, Henning Schulzrinne, Hannes
  Tschofenig, 2013-07-15, <draft-ietf-ecrit-data-only-ea-06.txt>

      RFC 6443 'Framework for Emergency Calling Using Internet Multimedia'
      describes how devices use the Internet to place emergency calls and
      how Public Safety Answering Points (PSAPs) can handle Internet
      multimedia emergency calls natively.  The exchange of multimedia
      traffic typically involves a SIP session establishment starting with
      a SIP INVITE that negotiates various parameters for that session.
      
      In some cases, however, the transmission of application data is
      everything that is needed.  Examples of such environments include a
      temperature sensors issuing alerts, or vehicles sending crash data.
      Often these alerts are conveyed as one-shot data transmissions.
      These type of interactions are called 'data-only emergency calls'.
      This document describes a container for the data based on the Common
      Alerting Protocol (CAP) and its transmission using the SIP MESSAGE
      transaction.

  "Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP) Callback", Henning Schulzrinne,
  Hannes Tschofenig, Christer Holmberg, Milan Patel, 2013-10-14,
  <draft-ietf-ecrit-psap-callback-13.txt>

      After an emergency call is completed (either prematurely terminated
      by the emergency caller or normally by the call taker) it is possible
      that the call taker feels the need for further communication.  For
      example, the call may have been dropped by accident without the call
      taker having sufficient information about the current situation of a
      wounded person.  A call taker may trigger a callback towards the
      emergency caller using the contact information provided with the
      initial emergency call.  This callback could, under certain
      circumstances, be treated like any other call and as a consequence it
      may get blocked by authorization policies or may get forwarded to an
      answering machine.
      
      The IETF emergency services architecture specification already offers
      a solution approach for allowing PSAP callbacks to bypass
      authorization policies to reach the caller without unnecessary
      delays.  Unfortunately, the specified mechanism only supports limited
      scenarios.  This document discusses shortcomings of the current
      mechanisms and illustrates additional scenarios where better-than-
      normal call treatment behavior would be desirable.  A solution based
      on a new header field value, called "psap-callback", for the SIP
      Priority header field is specified to accomplish the PSAP callback
      marking.

  "Additional Data related to an Emergency Call", Brian Rosen, Hannes
  Tschofenig, Roger Marshall, Randy, James Winterbottom, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-ietf-ecrit-additional-data-14.txt>

      When an emergency call is sent to a Public Safety Answering Point
      (PSAP), the device that sends it, as well as any application service
      provider in the path of the call, or access network provider through
      which the call originated may have information about the call, the
      caller or the location which the PSAP may be able to use.  This
      document describes data structures and a mechanism to convey such
      data to the PSAP.  The mechanism uses a Uniform Resource Identifier
      (URI), which may point to either an external resource or an object in
      the body of the SIP message.  The mechanism thus allows the data to
      be passed by reference (when the URI points to an external resource)
      or by value (when it points into the body of the message).  This
      follows the tradition of prior emergency services standardization
      work where data can be conveyed by value within the call signaling
      (i.e., in body of the SIP message) and also by reference.

  "Policy for defining new service-identifying lables", Andrea Forte,
  Henning Schulzrinne, 2013-06-20,
  <draft-ietf-ecrit-service-urn-policy-02.txt>

      In order to provide location-based services, descriptive terms for
      services need to be defined.  This document updates the policy for
      defining new service-identifying labels.

  "URN For Country Specific Emergency Services", Christer Holmberg, Ivo
  Sedlacek, 2013-04-29, <draft-ietf-ecrit-country-emg-urn-00.txt>

      This document updates section 4.2 of RFC 5031, in order to allow the
      registration of service URNs with the 'sos' service type for
      emergency services that, at the time of registration, are offered in
      one country only.

Energy Management (eman)
------------------------

  "Energy Management Framework", John Parello, Benoit Claise, Brad
  Schoening, Juergen Quittek, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-ietf-eman-framework-11.txt,.pdf>

      This document defines a framework for Energy Management for
      devices and device components within or connected to
      communication networks.  The framework presents a physical
      reference model and information model. The information
      model consists of an Energy Management Domain as a set of
      Energy Objects. Each Energy Object can be attributed with
      identity, classification, and context.  Energy Objects can
      be monitored and controlled with respect to power, Power
      State, energy, demand, Power Attributes, and battery.
      Additionally the framework models relationships and
      capabilities between Energy Objects.

  "Energy Object Context MIB", John Parello, Benoit Claise, Mouli
  Chandramouli, 2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-eman-energy-aware-mib-10.txt>

      This document defines a subset of a Management Information Base
      (MIB) for energy management of devices. The module addresses
      device identification, context information, and the
      relationships between reporting devices, remote devices, and
      monitoring devices.

  "Definition of Managed Objects for Battery Monitoring", Juergen Quittek,
  Rolf Winter, Thomas Dietz, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-eman-battery-mib-10.txt>

      This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
      for use with network management protocols in the Internet community.
      In particular, it defines managed objects that provide information on
      the status of batteries in managed devices.

  "Power and Energy Monitoring MIB", Mouli Chandramouli, Brad Schoening,
  Juergen Quittek, Thomas Dietz, Benoit Claise, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-eman-energy-monitoring-mib-07.txt>

      This document defines a subset of the Management Information
      Base (MIB) for power and energy monitoring of devices.

  "Energy Management (EMAN) Applicability Statement", Brad Schoening,
  Mouli Chandramouli, Bruce Nordman, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-ietf-eman-applicability-statement-04.txt>

      The objective of Energy Management (EMAN) is to provide an
      energy management framework for networked devices.  This
      document presents the applicability of the EMAN framework to a
      variety of scenarios.  This document lists use cases and target
      devices that can potentially implement the EMAN framework and
      associated SNMP MIB modules.  These use cases are useful for
      identifying requirements for the framework and MIBs.  Further,
      we describe the relationship of the EMAN framework to relevant
      other energy monitoring standards and architectures.

EAP Method Update (emu)
-----------------------

  "Tunnel EAP Method (TEAP) Version 1", Hao Zhou, Nancy Cam-Winget, Joseph
  Salowey, Stephen Hanna, 2013-09-30,
  <draft-ietf-emu-eap-tunnel-method-09.txt>

      This document defines the Tunnel Extensible Authentication Protocol
      (TEAP) version 1.  TEAP is a tunnel based EAP method that enables
      secure communication between a peer and a server by using the
      Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol to establish a mutually
      authenticated tunnel.  Within the tunnel, Type-Length-Value (TLV)
      objects are used to convey authentication related data between the
      EAP peer and the EAP server.

Forwarding and Control Element Separation (forces)
--------------------------------------------------

  "ForCES Intra-NE High Availability", Kentaro Ogawa, Weiming Wang,
  Evangelos Haleplidis, Jamal Hadi Salim, 2013-10-14,
  <draft-ietf-forces-ceha-08.txt>

      This document discusses Control Element High Availability within a
      ForCES Network Element.  Additionally this document updates [RFC5810]
      by providing new normative text for the Cold-Standby High
      availability mechanism.

  "ForCES Protocol Extensions", Jamal Hadi Salim, 2013-09-16,
  <draft-ietf-forces-protoextension-00.txt>

      Experience in implementing and deploying ForCES architecture has
      demonstrated need for a few small extensions both to ease
      programmability and to improve wire efficiency of some transactions.
      This document describes a few extensions to the ForCES Protocol
      Specification [RFC5810] semantics to achieve that end goal.

  "ForCES Model Extension", Evangelos Haleplidis, 2013-09-25,
  <draft-ietf-forces-model-extension-00.txt>

      Forwarding and Control Element Separation (ForCES) defines an
      architectural framework and associated protocols to standardize
      information exchange between the control plane and the forwarding
      plane in a ForCES Network Element (ForCES NE).  RFC5812 has defined
      the ForCES Model provides a formal way to represent the capabilities,
      state, and configuration of forwarding elements within the context of
      the ForCES protocol, so that control elements (CEs) can control the
      FEs accordingly.  More specifically, the model describes the logical
      functions that are present in an FE, what capabilities these
      functions support, and how these functions are or can be
      interconnected.
      
      RFC5812 has been around for two years and experience in its use has
      shown room for small extensions without a need to alter the protocol
      while retaining backward compatibility with older xml libraries.
      This document extends the model to allow complex datatypes for
      metadata, optional default values for datatypes and optional access
      types for structures.  The document also introduces three new
      features, bitmap as a new datatype, a new event condition
      BecomesEqualTo and LFB properties.

General Area (gen)
------------------

  "Experiences from Cross-Area Work at the IETF", Jari Arkko, 2013-02-06,
  <draft-arkko-iesg-crossarea-03.txt>

      This memo discusses the reasons for IETF work on topics that cross
      area boundaries.  Such cross-area work presents challenges for the
      organization of the IETF as well as on how interested parties can
      participate the work.  The memo also provides some suggestions on
      managing these challenges.

  "Process Experiment: Document Shepherding Throughout a Document's
  Lifecycle", Barry Leiba, 2013-07-10,
  <draft-leiba-extended-doc-shepherd-02.txt>

      RFC 4858 talks about "Document Shepherding from Working Group Last
      Call to Publication".  There's a significant part of a document's
      life that happens before working group last call, starting, really,
      at the time a working group begins discussing a version of the idea
      that's been posted as an individual draft.  It seems reasonable and
      helpful in many situations to begin shepherding when there's a call
      for adoption as a working group document.  This document extends RFC
      4858, describing how that extended shepherding function might work
      and what tasks might be involved throughout the document's lifecycle,
      and suggesting how Working Group Chairs might choose to implement
      extended shepherding.

  "Creating an IETF Working Group Draft", Adrian Farrel, Dave Crocker,
  2013-10-07, <draft-crocker-id-adoption-04.txt>

      The productive output of an IETF working group is documents, as
      mandated by the working group's charter.  When a working group is
      ready to develop a particular document it usually "adopts" it as a
      working group draft.  The document that a working group adopts and
      then develops further is based on initial input at varying levels of
      maturity.  An initial working group draft might be a document already
      in wide use, or it might be a blank sheet, wholly created by the
      working group, or it might represent any level of maturity in
      between.  This document discusses how a working group typically
      handles the formal documents that it targets for publication.

  "On Consensus and Humming in the IETF", Pete Resnick, 2013-10-04,
  <draft-resnick-on-consensus-05.txt>

      The IETF has had a long tradition of doing its technical work through
      a consensus process, taking into account the different views among
      IETF participants and coming to (at least rough) consensus on
      technical matters.  In particular, the IETF is supposed not to be run
      by a "majority rule" philosophy.  This is why we engage in rituals
      like "humming" instead of voting.  However, more and more of our
      actions are now indistinguishable from voting, and quite often we are
      letting the majority win the day, without consideration of minority
      concerns.  This document is a collection of thoughts on what rough
      consensus is, how we have gotten away from it, and the things we can
      do in order to really achieve rough consensus.
      
      Note (to be removed before publication): This document is quite
      consciously being put forward as Informational.  It does not
      propose to change any IETF processes and is therefore not a BCP.
      It is simply a collection of principles, hopefully around which
      the IETF can come to (at least rough) consensus.

  "Characterization of Proposed Standards", Olaf Kolkman, Scott Bradner,
  Sean Turner, 2013-10-17,
  <draft-kolkman-proposed-standards-clarified-04.txt>

      RFC 2026 describes the review performed by the IESG on IETF Proposed
      Standard RFCs and states the maturity level of those documents.  This
      document clarifies those descriptions and updates RFC 2026 by
      providing a new characterization of Proposed Standards.

  "IETF Guidelines for Conduct", S Moonesamy, 2013-10-15,
  <draft-moonesamy-ietf-conduct-3184bis-03.txt>

      This document provides a set of guidelines for personal interaction
      in the Internet Engineering Task Force.  The Guidelines recognize the
      diversity of IETF participants, emphasize the value of mutual
      respect, and stress the broad applicability of our work.

  "Retirement of the "Internet Official Protocol Standards" Summary
  Document", Pete Resnick, 2013-09-05, <draft-resnick-retire-std1-01.txt>

      This document updates RFC 2026 to no longer use STD 1 as a summary of
      "Internet Official Protocol Standards".  It obsoletes RFC 5000 and
      requests the IESG to move RFC 5000 (and therefore STD 1) to Historic
      status.

Geographic Location/Privacy (geopriv)
-------------------------------------

  "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) IPv4 and IPv6 Option for a
  Location Uniform Resource Identifier (URI)", James Polk, 2013-02-24,
  <draft-ietf-geopriv-dhcp-lbyr-uri-option-19.txt>

      This document creates a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP)
      Option for transmitting a client's geolocation Uniform Resource
      Identifier (URI). This Location URI can then be dereferenced in a
      separate transaction by the client or sent to another entity and
      dereferenced to learn physically where the client is located, but
      only while valid.

  "Using Device-provided Location-Related Measurements in Location
  Configuration Protocols", Martin Thomson, James Winterbottom,
  2013-09-06, <draft-ietf-geopriv-held-measurements-09.txt>

      This document describes a protocol for a Device to provide location-
      related measurement data to a Location Information Server (LIS)
      within a request for location information.  Location-related
      measurement information are observations concerning properties
      related to the position of a Device, which could be data about
      network attachment or about the physical environment.  A LIS is able
      to use the location-related measurement data to improve the accuracy
      of the location estimate it provides to the Device.  A basic set of
      location-related measurements are defined, including common modes of
      network attachment as well as assisted Global Navigation Satellite
      System (GNSS) parameters.

  "Location Configuration Extensions for Policy Management", Richard
  Barnes, Martin Thomson, James Winterbottom, Hannes Tschofenig,
  2012-10-04, <draft-ietf-geopriv-policy-uri-07.txt>

      Current location configuration protocols are capable of provisioning
      an Internet host with a location URI that refers to the host's
      location.  These protocols lack a mechanism for the target host to
      inspect or set the privacy rules that are applied to the URIs they
      distribute.  This document extends the current location configuration
      protocols to provide hosts with a reference to the rules that are
      applied to a URI, so that the host can view or set these rules.

  "Location Information Server (LIS) Discovery using IP address and
  Reverse DNS", Martin Thomson, Ray Bellis, 2013-09-06,
  <draft-ietf-geopriv-res-gw-lis-discovery-06.txt>

      The residential gateway is a device that has become an integral part
      of home networking equipment.  Discovering a Location Information
      Server (LIS) is a necessary part of acquiring location information
      for location-based services.  However, discovering a LIS when a
      residential gateway is present poses a configuration challenge,
      requiring a method that is able to work around the obstacle presented
      by the gateway.
      
      This document describes a solution to this problem.  The solution
      provides alternative domain names as input to the LIS discovery
      process based on the network addresses assigned to a Device.

Global Routing Operations (grow)
--------------------------------

  "Route-Leaks & MITM Attacks Against BGPSEC", Danny McPherson, Shane
  Amante, Eric Osterweil, Dave Mitchell, 2013-08-01,
  <draft-ietf-grow-simple-leak-attack-bgpsec-no-help-02.txt>

      This document describes a very simple attack vector that illustrates
      how RPKI-enabled BGPSEC machinery as currently defined can be easily
      circumvented in order to launch a Man In The Middle (MITM) attack via
      BGP.  It is meant to serve as input to the IETF's Global Routing
      Operations Working group (GROW) during routing security requirements
      discussions and subsequent specification.

  "IRR & Routing Policy Configuration Considerations", Danny McPherson,
  Shane Amante, Eric Osterweil, Larry Blunk, Dave Mitchell, 2013-05-10,
  <draft-ietf-grow-irr-routing-policy-considerations-01.txt>

      The purpose of this document is to catalog past issues influencing
      the efficacy of Internet Routing Registries (IRR) for inter-domain
      routing policy specification and application in the global routing
      system over the past two decades.  Additionally, it provides a
      discussion regarding which of these issues are still problematic in
      practice, and which are simply artifacts that are no longer
      applicable but continue to stifle inter-provider policy-based
      filtering adoption and IRR utility to this day.

  "Internet Exchange Route Server Operations", Nick Hilliard, Elisa
  Jasinska, Robert Raszuk, Niels Bakker, 2013-08-28,
  <draft-ietf-grow-ix-bgp-route-server-operations-01.txt>

      The popularity of Internet exchange points (IXPs) brings new
      challenges to interconnecting networks.  While bilateral eBGP
      sessions between exchange participants were historically the most
      common means of exchanging reachability information over an IXP, the
      overhead associated with this interconnection method causes serious
      operational and administrative scaling problems for IXP participants.
      
      Multilateral interconnection using Internet route servers can
      dramatically reduce the administrative and operational overhead of
      IXP participation and these systems used by many IXP participants as
      a preferred means of exchanging routing information.
      
      This document describes operational considerations for multilateral
      interconnections at IXPs.

  "Making BGP filtering a habit: Impact on policies", Camilo Cardona,
  Pierre Francois, 2013-10-18, <draft-ietf-grow-filtering-threats-01.txt>

      Network operators define their BGP policies based on the business
      relationships that they maintain with their peers.  By limiting the
      propagation of BGP prefixes, an autonomous system avoids the
      existence of flows between BGP peers that do not provide any
      economical gain.  This draft describes how unexpected traffic flows
      can emerge in autonomous systems due to the filtering of overlapping
      BGP prefixes by neighboring domains.

Host Identity Protocol (hip)
----------------------------

  "Host Identity Protocol-Based Overlay Networking Environment (HIP BONE)
  Instance Specification for REsource LOcation And Discovery (RELOAD)",
  Ari Keranen, Gonzalo Camarillo, Jouni Maenpaa, 2013-10-11,
  <draft-ietf-hip-reload-instance-10.txt>

      This document is the Host Identity Protocol-Based Overlay Networking
      Environment (HIP BONE) instance specification for the REsource
      LOcation And Discovery (RELOAD) protocol.  The document provides the
      details needed to build a RELOAD-based overlay that uses HIP.

  "An IPv6 Prefix for Overlay Routable Cryptographic Hash Identifiers
  Version 2 (ORCHIDv2)", Julien Laganier, Francis Dupont, 2013-05-06,
  <draft-ietf-hip-rfc4843-bis-04.txt>

      This document specifies an updated Overlay Routable Cryptographic
      Hash Identifiers format that obsoletes the earlier format defined in
      [RFC4843].  These identifiers are intended to be used as endpoint
      identifiers at applications and Application Programming Interfaces
      (API) and not as identifiers for network location at the IP layer,
      i.e., locators.  They are designed to appear as application layer
      entities and at the existing IPv6 APIs, but they should not appear in
      actual IPv6 headers.  To make them more like regular IPv6 addresses,
      they are expected to be routable at an overlay level.  Consequently,
      while they are considered non-routable addresses from the IPv6 layer
      point-of-view, all existing IPv6 applications are expected to be able
      to use them in a manner compatible with current IPv6 addresses.
      
      The Overlay Routable Cryptographic Hash Identifiers originally
      defined in [RFC4843] lacked a mechanism for cryptographic algorithm
      agility.  The updated ORCHID format specified in this document
      removes this limitation by encoding in the identifier itself an index
      to the suite of cryptographic algorithms in use.

  "Host Identity Protocol Version 2 (HIPv2)", Robert Moskowitz, Tobias
  Heer, Petri Jokela, Tom Henderson, 2013-10-06,
  <draft-ietf-hip-rfc5201-bis-14.txt>

      This document specifies the details of the Host Identity Protocol
      (HIP).  HIP allows consenting hosts to securely establish and
      maintain shared IP-layer state, allowing separation of the identifier
      and locator roles of IP addresses, thereby enabling continuity of
      communications across IP address changes.  HIP is based on a SIGMA-
      compliant Diffie-Hellman key exchange, using public key identifiers
      from a new Host Identity namespace for mutual peer authentication.
      The protocol is designed to be resistant to denial-of-service (DoS)
      and man-in-the-middle (MitM) attacks.  When used together with
      another suitable security protocol, such as the Encapsulated Security
      Payload (ESP), it provides integrity protection and optional
      encryption for upper-layer protocols, such as TCP and UDP.
      
      This document obsoletes RFC 5201 and addresses the concerns raised by
      the IESG, particularly that of crypto agility.  It also incorporates
      lessons learned from the implementations of RFC 5201.

  "Host Mobility with the Host Identity Protocol", Tom Henderson,
  Christian Vogt, Jari Arkko, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-ietf-hip-rfc5206-bis-06.txt>

      This document defines mobility extensions to the Host Identity
      Protocol (HIP).  Specifically, this document defines a general
      "LOCATOR_SET" parameter for HIP messages that allows for a HIP host
      to notify peers about alternate addresses at which it may be reached.
      This document also defines elements of procedure for mobility of a
      HIP host -- the process by which a host dynamically changes the
      primary locator that it uses to receive packets.  While the same
      LOCATOR_SET parameter can also be used to support end-host
      multihoming, detailed procedures are out of scope for this document.
      This document obsoletes RFC 5206.

  "Native NAT Traversal Mode for the Host Identity Protocol", Ari Keranen,
  Jan Melen, 2013-06-14, <draft-ietf-hip-native-nat-traversal-05.txt>

      This document specifies a new Network Address Translator (NAT)
      traversal mode for the Host Identity Protocol (HIP).  The new mode is
      based on the Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) methodology
      and UDP encapsulation of data and signaling traffic.  The main
      difference from the previously specified modes is the use of HIP
      messages for all NAT traversal procedures.

  "Using the Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP) Transport Format with
  the Host Identity Protocol (HIP)", Petri Jokela, Robert Moskowitz, Jan
  Melen, 2013-09-05, <draft-ietf-hip-rfc5202-bis-04.txt>

      This memo specifies an Encapsulated Security Payload (ESP) based
      mechanism for transmission of user data packets, to be used with the
      Host Identity Protocol (HIP).  This document obsoletes RFC 5202.

  "Host Multihoming with the Host Identity Protocol", Tom Henderson,
  Christian Vogt, Jari Arkko, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-ietf-hip-multihoming-03.txt>

      This document defines host multihoming extensions to the Host
      Identity Protocol (HIP), by leveraging protocol components defined
      for host mobility.

  "Host Identity Protocol Certificates", Tobias Heer, Samu Varjonen,
  2013-10-04, <draft-ietf-hip-rfc6253-bis-01.txt>

      The Certificate (CERT) parameter is a container for digital
      certificates.  It is used for carrying these certificates in Host
      Identity Protocol (HIP) control packets.  This document specifies the
      certificate parameter and the error signaling in case of a failed
      verification.  Additionally, this document specifies the
      representations of Host Identity Tags in X.509 version 3 (v3) and
      Simple Public Key Infrastructure (SPKI) certificates.
      
      The concrete use cases of certificates, including how certificates
      are obtained, requested, and which actions are taken upon successful
      or failed verification, are specific to the scenario in which the
      certificates are used.  Hence, the definition of these scenario-
      specific aspects is left to the documents that use the CERT
      parameter.
      
      This document extends I-D.draft-ietf-hip-rfc5201-bis.

Host Identity Protocol (hiprg)
------------------------------

  "HIP support for RFIDs", Pascal Urien, Gyu Lee, Guy Pujolle, 2013-04-23,
  <draft-irtf-hiprg-rfid-07.txt>

      This document describes an architecture based on the Host Identity
      Protocol (HIP), for active RFIDs, i.e. Radio Frequency Identifiers
      including tamper resistant computing resources, as specified for
      example in the ISO 14443 or 15693 standards. HIP-RFIDs never expose
      their identity in clear text, but hide this value (typically an EPC-
      Code) by a particular equation that can be only solved by a dedicated
      entity, referred as the portal. HIP exchanges occur between HIP-RFIDs
      and portals; they are transported by IP packets, through the Internet
      cloud.

Home Networking (homenet)
-------------------------

  "IPv6 Home Networking Architecture Principles", Tim Chown, Jari Arkko,
  Anders Brandt, Ole Troan, Jason Weil, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-homenet-arch-11.txt>

      This text describes evolving networking technology within residential
      home networks with increasing numbers of devices and a trend towards
      increased internal routing.  The goal of this document is to define a
      general architecture for IPv6-based home networking, describing the
      associated principles, considerations and requirements.  The text
      briefly highlights specific implications of the introduction of IPv6
      for home networking, discusses the elements of the architecture, and
      suggests how standard IPv6 mechanisms and addressing can be employed
      in home networking.  The architecture describes the need for specific
      protocol extensions for certain additional functionality.  It is
      assumed that the IPv6 home network is not actively managed, and runs
      as an IPv6-only or dual-stack network.  There are no recommendations
      in this text for the IPv4 part of the network.

Hypertext Transfer Protocol Authentication (httpauth)
-----------------------------------------------------

  "HTTP Origin-Bound Authentication (HOBA)", Stephen Farrell, Paul
  Hoffman, Michael Thomas, 2013-10-18, <draft-ietf-httpauth-hoba-02.txt>

      HTTP Origin-Bound Authentication (HOBA) is a design for an HTTP
      authentication method with credentials that are not vulnerable to
      phishing attacks, and that does not require any server-side password
      database.  The design can also be used in Javascript-based
      authentication embedded in HTML.  HOBA is an alternative to HTTP
      authentication schemes that require passwords.

  "An Encoding Parameter for HTTP Basic Authentication", Julian Reschke,
  2013-06-30, <draft-ietf-httpauth-basicauth-enc-01.txt>

      The "Basic" authentication scheme defined in RFC 2617 does not
      properly define how to treat non-ASCII characters.  This has led to a
      situation where user agent implementations disagree, and servers make
      different assumptions based on the locales they are running in.
      There is little interoperability for the non-ASCII characters in the
      ISO-8859-1 character repertoire, and even less interoperability for
      any characters beyond that.
      
      This document defines a backwards-compatible extension to "Basic",
      specifying the server's character encoding scheme expectation, using
      a new authentication scheme parameter.

  "HTTP Digest Update", Rifaat Shekh-Yusef, David Ahrens, 2013-09-02,
  <draft-ietf-httpauth-digest-update-05.txt>

      This documents specifies extensions to the HTTP Digest Authentication
      mechanism to add support for new digest algorithms to the HTTP Digest
      Access Authentication scheme.
      
      This document also defines an extension to the HTTP Digest
      Authentication mechanism to allow the server to indicate its support
      for the UTF-8 character encoding scheme.

  "Mutual Authentication Protocol for HTTP", Yutaka Oiwa, Hajime Watanabe,
  Hiromitsu Takagi, Tatsuya Hayashi, Yuichi Ioku, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-httpauth-mutual-01.txt,.ps,.pdf>

      This document specifies a mutual authentication method for the Hyper-
      text Transfer Protocol (HTTP).  This method provides a true mutual
      authentication between an HTTP client and an HTTP server using
      password-based authentication.  Unlike the Basic and Digest
      authentication methods, the Mutual authentication method specified in
      this document assures the user that the server truly knows the user's
      encrypted password.

  "HTTP Authentication Extensions for Interactive Clients", Yutaka Oiwa,
  Hajime Watanabe, Hiromitsu Takagi, Tatsuya Hayashi, Yuichi Ioku,
  2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-httpauth-extension-01.txt,.ps,.pdf>

      This document specifies a few extensions of HTTP authentication
      framework for interactive clients.  Recently, fundamental features of
      HTTP-level authentication is not enough for complex requirements of
      various Web-based applications.  This makes these applications to
      implement their own authentication frameworks using HTML Forms and
      other means, which becomes one of the hurdles against introducing
      secure authentication mechanisms handled jointly by servers and user-
      agent clients.  The extended framework fills gaps between Web
      application requirements and HTTP authentication provisions to solve
      the above problems, while maintaining compatibility against existing
      Web and non-Web uses of HTTP authentications.

  "Salted Challenge Response (SCRAM) HTTP Authentication Mechanism",
  Alexey Melnikov, 2013-10-18, <draft-ietf-httpauth-scram-auth-01.txt>

      The secure authentication mechanism most widely deployed and used by
      Internet application protocols is the transmission of clear-text
      passwords over a channel protected by Transport Layer Security (TLS).
      There are some significant security concerns with that mechanism,
      which could be addressed by the use of a challenge response
      authentication mechanism protected by TLS.  Unfortunately, the HTTP
      Digest challenge response mechanism presently on the standards track
      failed widespread deployment, and have had success only in limited
      use.
      
      This specification describes a family of HTTP authentication
      mechanisms called the Salted Challenge Response Authentication
      Mechanism (SCRAM), which addresses the security concerns and meets
      the deployability requirements.  When used in combination with TLS or
      an equivalent security layer, a mechanism from this family could
      improve the status-quo for application protocol authentication.

  "An Encoding Mechanism for HTTP Digest Authentication", Rifaat
  Shekh-Yusef, 2013-07-07, <draft-ietf-httpauth-digest-encoding-02.txt>

      RFC2617 does not define how to treat Unicode characters [UNICODE]
      outside the ASCII range [RFC20] with the "Digest" scheme.  This
      document defines an extension to the "Digest" scheme, and a mechanism
      that enables the client and server to negotiate their support for the
      UTF-8 [RFC3629] character encoding scheme.

  "RESTful Authentication Pattern for the Hypertext Transport Protocol
  (HTTP)", Nico Williams, 2013-08-14,
  <draft-ietf-httpauth-rest-auth-01.txt>

      This document proposes a "RESTful" pattern of authentication for
      HTTP/1.0, 1.1, and 2.0.  The goal is to make it easy to add
      authentication mechanisms to HTTP applications and to make it easy to
      implement them even without much help from the HTTP stack (though it
      is best to integrate authentication into the stack, of course).
      Another goal is to make it easy to reuse existing authentication
      mechanisms by allowing the user (that is, the server's operators) to
      choose what concrete authentication mechanism(s) to use.
      
      Among other benefits of RESTauth: it is orthogonal to "HTTP routers"
      and proxies, it results in session Uniform Resource Identifiers
      (URIs) that can be DELETEd to logout, naturally supports multi-legged
      authentication schemes, naturally supports clustering, and can be
      universally implemented on the server side with such
      server<->application interfaces as the Common Gateway Interface (CGI)
      and FastCGI, among others.

  "The 'Basic' HTTP Authentication Scheme", Julian Reschke, 2013-09-13,
  <draft-ietf-httpauth-basicauth-update-00.txt>

      This document defines the "Basic" Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)
      Authentication Scheme.
      
      Editorial Note (To be removed by RFC Editor before publication)
      
      Discussion of this draft takes place on the HTTPAuth working group
      mailing list (http-auth@ietf.org), which is archived at <http://
      www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/http-auth/current/maillist.html>.
      
      XML versions, latest edits and the issues list for this document are
      available from <http://greenbytes.de/tech/
      webdav/#draft-ietf-httpauth-basicauth-update>.
      
      The changes in this draft are summarized in Appendix A.1.

  "HTTP Digest Access Authentication", Rifaat Shekh-Yusef, David Ahrens,
  2013-10-07, <draft-ietf-httpauth-digest-00.txt>

      HTTP provides a simple challenge-response authentication mechanism
      that may be used by a server to challenge a client request and by a
      client to provide authentication information. This document defines
      the HTTP Digest Authentication scheme that may be used with the
      authentication mechanism.

Hypertext Transfer Protocol Bis (httpbis)
-----------------------------------------

  "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Conditional Requests", Roy
  Fielding, Julian Reschke, 2013-09-25,
  <draft-ietf-httpbis-p4-conditional-24.txt>

      The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level
      protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information
      systems.  This document defines HTTP/1.1 conditional requests,
      including metadata header fields for indicating state changes,
      request header fields for making preconditions on such state, and
      rules for constructing the responses to a conditional request when
      one or more preconditions evaluate to false.

  "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Authentication", Roy Fielding,
  Julian Reschke, 2013-09-25, <draft-ietf-httpbis-p7-auth-24.txt>

      The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level
      protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypermedia information
      systems.  This document defines the HTTP Authentication framework.

  "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing",
  Roy Fielding, Julian Reschke, 2013-09-25,
  <draft-ietf-httpbis-p1-messaging-24.txt>

      The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level
      protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information
      systems.  HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global
      information initiative since 1990.  This document provides an
      overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines
      the "http" and "https" Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes,
      defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and
      describes general security concerns for implementations.

  "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Caching", Roy Fielding, Mark
  Nottingham, Julian Reschke, 2013-09-25,
  <draft-ietf-httpbis-p6-cache-24.txt>

      The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level
      protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information
      systems.  This document defines requirements on HTTP caches and the
      associated header fields that control cache behavior or indicate
      cacheable response messages.

  "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Semantics and Content", Roy
  Fielding, Julian Reschke, 2013-09-25,
  <draft-ietf-httpbis-p2-semantics-24.txt>

      The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level
      protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information
      systems.  This document defines the semantics of HTTP/1.1 messages,
      as expressed by request methods, request header fields, response
      status codes, and response header fields, along with the payload of
      messages (metadata and body content) and mechanisms for content
      negotiation.

  "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Range Requests", Roy Fielding,
  Yves Lafon, Julian Reschke, 2013-09-25,
  <draft-ietf-httpbis-p5-range-24.txt>

      The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level
      protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information
      systems.  This document defines range requests and the rules for
      constructing and combining responses to those requests.

  "Initial Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Method Registrations",
  Julian Reschke, 2013-09-25,
  <draft-ietf-httpbis-method-registrations-13.txt>

      This document registers those Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)
      methods which have been defined in standards-track RFCs before the
      IANA HTTP Method Registry was established.

  "Initial Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Authentication Scheme
  Registrations", Julian Reschke, 2013-09-25,
  <draft-ietf-httpbis-authscheme-registrations-08.txt>

      This document registers Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)
      authentication schemes which have been defined in standards-track
      RFCs before the IANA HTTP Authentication Scheme Registry was
      established.

  "Hypertext Transfer Protocol version 2.0", Mike Belshe, Roberto Peon,
  Martin Thomson, Alexey Melnikov, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-httpbis-http2-07.txt>

      This specification describes an optimized expression of the syntax of
      the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP).  HTTP/2.0 enables a more
      efficient use of network resources and a reduced perception of
      latency by introducing header field compression and allowing multiple
      concurrent messages on the same connection.  It also introduces
      unsolicited push of representations from servers to clients.
      
      This document is an alternative to, but does not obsolete, the
      HTTP/1.1 message syntax.  HTTP's existing semantics remain unchanged.

  "HPACK - Header Compression for HTTP/2.0", Roberto Peon, Herve Ruellan,
  2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-httpbis-header-compression-04.txt>

      This document describes HPACK, a format adapted to efficiently
      represent HTTP header fields in the context of HTTP/2.0.

BiDirectional or Server-Initiated HTTP (hybi)
---------------------------------------------

  "A Multiplexing Extension for WebSockets", John Tamplin, Takeshi
  Yoshino, 2013-07-02, <draft-ietf-hybi-websocket-multiplexing-11.txt>

      The WebSocket Protocol [RFC6455] requires a new transport connection
      for every WebSocket connection.  This presents a scalability problem
      when many clients connect to the same server, and is made worse by
      having multiple clients running in different tabs of the same user
      agent.  This extension provides a way for separate logical WebSocket
      connections to share an underlying transport connection.
      
      Please send feedback to the hybi@ietf.org mailing list.

  "Compression Extensions for WebSocket", Takeshi Yoshino, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-ietf-hybi-permessage-compression-15.txt>

      This document specifies a framework for creating WebSocket extensions
      that add compression functionality to the WebSocket Protocol.  An
      extension based on this framework compresses the payload data portion
      of non-control WebSocket messages on a per-message basis using
      parameters negotiated during the opening handshake.  This framework
      provides a general method to apply a compression algorithm to the
      contents of WebSocket messages.  For each compression algorithm, an
      extension is defined by specifying parameter negotiation and
      compression algorithm in detail.  This document also specifies one
      specific compression extension using the DEFLATE algorithm.
      
      Please send feedback to the hybi@ietf.org mailing list.

Interface to the Routing System (i2rs)
--------------------------------------

  "An Architecture for the Interface to the Routing System", Alia Atlas,
  Joel Halpern, Susan Hares, David Ward, Thomas Nadeau, 2013-08-16,
  <draft-ietf-i2rs-architecture-00.txt>

      This document describes an architecture for a standard, programmatic
      interface for state transfer in and out of the Internet's routing
      system.  It describes the basic architecture, the components, and
      their interfaces with particular focus on those to be standardized as
      part of I2RS.

  "Interface to the Routing System Problem Statement", Alia Atlas, Thomas
  Nadeau, David Ward, 2013-08-16,
  <draft-ietf-i2rs-problem-statement-00.txt>

      As modern networks grow in scale and complexity, the need for rapid
      and dynamic control increases.  With scale, the need to automate even
      the simplest operations is important, but even more critical is the
      ability to quickly interact with more complex operations such as
      policy-based controls.
      
      In order to enable network applications to have access to and control
      over information in the Internet's routing system, we need a publicly
      documented interface specification.  The interface needs to support
      real-time, asynchronous interactions using data models and encodings
      that are efficient and potentially different from those available
      today.  Furthermore, the interface must be tailored to support a
      variety of use cases.
      
      This document expands upon these statements of requirements to
      provide a detailed problem statement for an Interface to the Routing
      System (I2RS).

  "Routing Information Base Info Model", Nitin Bahadur, Ron Folkes,
  Sriganesh Kini, Jan Medved, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-ietf-i2rs-rib-info-model-01.txt>

      Routing and routing functions in enterprise and carrier networks are
      typically performed by network devices (routers and switches) using a
      routing information base (RIB).  Protocols and configuration push
      data into the RIB and the RIB manager install state into the
      hardware; for packet forwarding.  This draft specifies an information
      model for the RIB to enable defining a standardized data model.  Such
      a data model can be used to define an interface to the RIB from an
      entity that may even be external to the network device.  This
      interface can be used to support new use-cases being defined by the
      IETF I2RS WG.

Internet Architecture Board (iab)
---------------------------------

  "Architectural Considerations of IP Anycast", Danny McPherson, David
  Oran, Dave Thaler, Eric Osterweil, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-iab-anycast-arch-implications-11.txt>

      This memo discusses architectural implications of IP anycast, and
      provides some historical analysis of anycast use by various IETF
      protocols.

  "Technical Considerations for Internet Service Blocking and Filtering",
  Richard Barnes, Alissa Cooper, Olaf Kolkman, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-iab-filtering-considerations-04.txt>

      The Internet is structured to be an open communications medium.  This
      openness is one of the key underpinnings of Internet innovation, but
      it can also allow communications that may be viewed as undesirable by
      certain parties.  Thus, as the Internet has grown, so have mechanisms
      to limit the extent and impact of abusive or objectionable
      communications.  Recently, there has been an increasing emphasis on
      "blocking" and "filtering," the active prevention of such
      communications.  This document examines several technical approaches
      to Internet blocking and filtering in terms of their alignment with
      the overall Internet architecture.  In general, the approach to
      blocking and filtering that is most coherent with the Internet
      architecture is to inform endpoints about potentially undesirable
      services, so that the communicants can avoid engaging in abusive or
      objectionable communications.

  "Architectural Considerations in Smart Object Networking", Hannes
  Tschofenig, Jari Arkko, Dave Thaler, Danny McPherson, 2013-10-17,
  <draft-iab-smart-object-architecture-03.txt>

      Following the theme "Everything that can be connected will be
      connected", engineers and researchers designing smart object networks
      need to decide how to achieve this in practice.  How can different
      forms of embedded and constrained devices be interconnected?  How can
      they employ and interact with the currently deployed Internet?  This
      memo discusses smart objects and some of the architectural choices
      involved in designing smart object networks and protocols that they
      use.

  "The IEEE 802 / IETF Relationship", Spencer Dawkins, Patricia Thaler,
  Dan Romascanu, 2013-10-16, <draft-iab-rfc4441rev-05.txt>

      This document describes the standardization cooperation between
      Project 802 of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers
      (IEEE) and the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF).  This document
      obsoletes RFC 4441.

  "Reflections On Host Firewalls", Dave Thaler, 2013-06-21,
  <draft-iab-host-firewalls-00.txt>

      In today's Internet, the need for firewalls is generally accepted in
      the industry and indeed firewalls are widely deployed in practice.
      Often the result is that software may be running and potentially
      consuming resources, but then communication is blocked by a firewall.
      It's taken for granted that this end state is either desirable or the
      best that can be achieved in practice, rather than (for example) an
      end state where the relevant software is not running or is running in
      a way that would not result in unwanted communication.  In this
      document, we explore the issues behind these assumptions and provide
      suggestions on improving the architecture going forward.

  "DNS Root Name Service Protocol and Deployment Requirements", Marc
  Blanchet, Lars-Johan Liman, 2013-07-10, <draft-iab-2870bis-00.txt>

      The DNS Root Name service are a critical part of the Internet
      architecture.  The protocol and deployment requirements expected to
      be implemented for the DNS root name services are defined in this
      document.  Operational requirements are out of scope.  This document
      obsoletes and reclassifies RFC2870 as Historic.

Information-Centric Networking (icnrg)
--------------------------------------

  "Information-centric Networking: Baseline Scenarios", Kostas
  Pentikousis, Borje Ohlman, Daniel Corujo, Gennaro Boggia, Gareth Tyson,
  Elwyn Davies, Antonella Molinaro, Suyong Eum, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-irtf-icnrg-scenarios-01.txt>

      This document aims at establishing a common understanding about a set
      of scenarios that can be used as a base for the evaluation of
      different information-centric networking (ICN) approaches so that
      they can be tested and compared against each other while showcasing
      their own advantages.  Towards this end, we review the ICN literature
      and document scenarios which have been considered in previous
      performance evaluation studies.  We discuss a variety of aspects that
      an ICN solution can address.  This includes general aspects, such as,
      network efficiency, reduced complexity, increased scalability and
      reliability, mobility support, multicast and caching performance,
      real-time communication efficacy, energy consumption frugality, and
      disruption and delay tolerance.  We detail ICN-specific aspects as
      well, such as information security and trust, persistence,
      availability, provenance, and location independence.

  "Information-centric Networking: Evaluation Methodology", Kostas
  Pentikousis, Borje Ohlman, Elwyn Davies, Spiros Spirou, Gennaro Boggia,
  Priya Mahadevan, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-irtf-icnrg-evaluation-methodology-00.txt>

      This document surveys the evaluation tools currently available to
      researchers in the information-centric networking (ICN) area and
      provides suggestions regarding methodology and metrics.  Finally,
      this document sheds some light on the impact of ICN on network
      security.

Inter-Domain Routing (idr)
--------------------------

  "Definitions of Managed Objects for the Fourth Version of Border Gateway
  Protocol (BGP-4), Second Version", Jeffrey Haas, 2013-07-14,
  <draft-ietf-idr-bgp4-mibv2-14.txt>

      This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
      for use with network management protocols.  In particular it defines
      objects for managing the Border Gateway Protocol, Version 4.

  "Advertisement of Multiple Paths in BGP", Daniel Walton, Alvaro Retana,
  Enke Chen, John Scudder, 2013-10-16, <draft-ietf-idr-add-paths-09.txt>

      In this document we propose a BGP extension that allows the
      advertisement of multiple paths for the same address prefix without
      the new paths implicitly replacing any previous ones.  The essence of
      the extension is that each path is identified by a path identifier in
      addition to the address prefix.

  "Definitions of Textual Conventions for the Management of the Fourth
  Version of Border Gateway Protocol (BGP-4)", Jeffrey Haas, 2013-07-14,
  <draft-ietf-idr-bgp4-mibv2-tc-mib-04.txt>

      This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
      which defines Textual Conventions for the management of BGP-4.  The
      intent is that these textual conventions will be used in BGP-related
      MIB modules that would otherwise define their own representations.

  "The Accumulated IGP Metric Attribute for BGP", Prodosh Mohapatra, Rex
  Fernando, Eric Rosen, Jim Uttaro, 2013-05-23,
  <draft-ietf-idr-aigp-10.txt>

      Routing protocols that have been designed to run within a single
      administrative domain ("IGPs") generally do so by assigning a metric
      to each link, and then choosing as the installed path between two
      nodes the path for which the total distance (sum of the metric of
      each link along the path) is minimized.  BGP, designed to provide
      routing over a large number of independent administrative domains
      ("autonomous systems"), does not make its path selection decisions
      through the use of a metric.  It is generally recognized that any
      attempt to do so would incur significant scalability problems, as
      well as inter-administration coordination problems.  However, there
      are deployments in which a single administration runs several
      contiguous BGP networks.  In such cases, it can be desirable, within
      that single administrative domain, for BGP to select paths based on a
      metric, just as an IGP would do.  The purpose of this document is to
      provide a specification for doing so.

  "Best Practices for Advertisement of Multiple Paths in IBGP", Jim
  Uttaro, Pierre Francois, Roberto Fragassi, Adam Simpson, Keyur Patel,
  2013-06-24, <draft-ietf-idr-add-paths-guidelines-05.txt>

      Add-Paths is a BGP enhancement that allows a BGP router to advertise
      multiple distinct paths for the same prefix/NLRI. This provides a
      number of potential benefits, including reduced routing churn, faster
      convergence and better loadsharing.
      
      This document provides recommendations to implementers of Add-Paths
      so that network operators have the tools needed to address their
      specific applications and to manage the scalability impact of Add-
      Paths. A router implementing Add-Paths may learn many paths for a
      prefix and must decide which of these to advertise to peers. This
      document analyses different algorithms for making this selection and
      provides recommendations based on the target application.

  "Assigned BGP extended communities", Bruno Decraene, Pierre Francois,
  2013-05-21, <draft-ietf-idr-reserved-extended-communities-05.txt>

      This document defines an IANA registry in order to assign non-
      transitive extended communities from.  These are similar to the
      existing well-known BGP communities defined in RFC 1997 but provide a
      control over inter-AS community advertisement as, per RFC RFC 4360,
      they are not transitive across Autonomous System boundaries.
      
      For that purpose, this document defines the use of the reserved
      Autonomous System number 0.65535 in the non-transitive generic four-
      octet AS specific extended community type.

  "Enhanced Route Refresh Capability for BGP-4", Keyur Patel, Enke Chen,
  Balaji Venkatachalapathy, 2013-06-24,
  <draft-ietf-idr-bgp-enhanced-route-refresh-04.txt>

      In this document we enhance the existing BGP route refresh mechanisms
      to provide for the demarcation of the beginning and the ending of a
      route refresh.  The enhancement can be used to facilitate on-line,
      non-disruptive consistency validations of BGP routing updates.

  "BGP Optimal Route Reflection (BGP-ORR)", Robert Raszuk, Christian
  Cassar, Erik Aman, Bruno Decraene, Stephane Litkowski, 2013-06-04,
  <draft-ietf-idr-bgp-optimal-route-reflection-05.txt>

      [RFC4456] asserts that, because the Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP)
      cost to a given point in the network will vary across routers, "the
      route reflection approach may not yield the same route selection
      result as that of the full IBGP mesh approach."  One practical
      implication of this assertion is that the deployment of route
      reflection may thwart the ability to achieve hot potato routing.  Hot
      potato routing attempts to direct traffic to the closest AS egress
      point in cases where no higher priority policy dictates otherwise.
      As a consequence of the route reflection method, the choice of exit
      point for a route reflector and its clients will be the egress point
      closest to the route reflector - and not necessarily closest to the
      RR clients.
      
      Section 11 of [RFC4456] describes a deployment approach and a set of
      constraints which, if satsified, would result in the deployment of
      route reflection yielding the same results as the iBGP full mesh
      approach.  Such a deployment approach would make route reflection
      compatible with the application of hot potato routing policy.
      
      As networks evolved to accommodate architectural requirements of new
      services, tunneled (LSP/IP tunneling) networks with centralized route
      reflectors became commonplace.  This is one type of common deployment
      where it would be impractical to satisfy the constraints described in
      Section 11 of [RFC4456].  Yet, in such an environment, hot potato
      routing policy remains desirable.
      
      This document proposes two new solutions which can be deployed to
      facilitate the application of closest exit point policy centralized
      route reflection deployments.

  "Extended Message support for BGP", Keyur Patel, David Ward, Randy Bush,
  2013-08-03, <draft-ietf-idr-bgp-extended-messages-06.txt>

      The BGP specification mandates a maximum BGP message size of 4096
      octets.  As BGP is extended to support newer AFI/SAFIs, there is a
      need to extend the maximum message size beyond 4096 octets.  This
      document updates [RFC4271] by providing an extension to BGP to extend
      its current message size from 4096 octets to 65535 octets.

  "IPv6 Extensions for Route Target Distribution", Keyur Patel, Robert
  Raszuk, Martine Djernaes, Jie Dong, Mach Chen, 2013-08-07,
  <draft-ietf-idr-bgp-ipv6-rt-constrain-04.txt>

      The current route target distribution specification described in
      RFC4684 defines Route Target NLRIs of maximum length of 12 bytes.
      The IPv6 specific Route Target extended community is defined in
      [RFC5701] as length of 20 bytes.  Since the current specification
      only supports prefixes of maximum length of 12 bytes, the lack of an
      IPv6 specific Route Target reachability information may be a problem
      when an operator wants to use this application in a pure IPv6
      environment.  This document defines an extension that allows BGP to
      exchange longer length IPv6 Route Target prefixes.

  "Revised Error Handling for BGP UPDATE Messages", John Scudder, Enke
  Chen, Prodosh Mohapatra, Keyur Patel, 2013-06-24,
  <draft-ietf-idr-error-handling-04.txt>

      According to the base BGP specification, a BGP speaker that receives
      an UPDATE message containing a malformed attribute is required to
      reset the session over which the offending attribute was received.
      This behavior is undesirable as a session reset would impact not only
      routes with the offending attribute, but also other valid routes
      exchanged over the session.  This document partially revises the
      error handling for UPDATE messages, and provides guidelines for the
      authors of documents defining new attributes.  Finally, it revises
      the error handling procedures for a number of existing attributes.

  "BGP Custom Decision Process", Alvaro Retana, Russ White, 2013-05-20,
  <draft-ietf-idr-custom-decision-03.txt>

      The BGP specification defines a Decision Process for installation of
      routes into the Loc-RIB.  This process takes into account an
      extensive series of path attributes, which can be manipulated to
      indicate preference for specific paths.  It is cumbersome (if at all
      possible) for the end user to define policies that will select, after
      partial comparison, a path based on subjective local (domain and/or
      node) criteria.
      
      This document defines a new Extended Community, called the Cost
      Community, which may be used in tie breaking during the best path
      selection process.  The end result is a local custom decision
      process.

  "Codification of AS 0 processing.", Warren Kumari, Randy Bush, Heather
  Schiller, Keyur Patel, 2012-08-26, <draft-ietf-idr-as0-06.txt>

      This document updates RFC 4271 and proscribes the use of Autonomous
      System (AS) 0 in the Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) OPEN and AS_PATH /
      AS4_PATH BGP attribute.

  "Accelerated Routing Convergence for BGP Graceful Restart", Keyur Patel,
  Enke Chen, Rex Fernando, John Scudder, 2013-06-24,
  <draft-ietf-idr-enhanced-gr-03.txt>

      In this document we specify extensions to BGP graceful restart in
      order to avoid unnecessary transmission of the routing information
      preserved across a session restart, thus accelerating the routing
      convergence.

  "Notification Message support for BGP Graceful Restart", Keyur Patel,
  Rex Fernando, John Scudder, Jeffrey Haas, 2013-04-25,
  <draft-ietf-idr-bgp-gr-notification-01.txt>

      The current BGP Graceful Restart mechanism limits the usage of BGP
      Graceful Restart to BGP protocol messages other than a BGP
      NOTIFICATION message.  This document defines an extension to the BGP
      Graceful Restart that permits the Graceful Restart procedures to be
      performed when the BGP speaker receives a BGP NOTIFICATION Message.
      This document also defines a new BGP NOTIFICATION Cease Error subcode
      to prevent BGP speakers supporting the extension defined in this
      document from performing a Graceful Restart.

  "Automatic Route Target Filtering for legacy PEs", Pradosh Mohapatra,
  Arjun Sreekantiah, Keyur Patel, Burjiz Pithawala, Alton Lo, 2013-10-02,
  <draft-ietf-idr-legacy-rtc-02.txt>

      This document describes a simple procedure that allows "legacy" BGP
      speakers to exchange route target membership information in BGP
      without using mechanisms specified in [RFC4684].  The intention of
      the proposed technique is to help in partial deployment scenarios and
      is not meant to replace [RFC4684].

  "Internet Exchange Route Server", Elisa Jasinska, Nick Hilliard, Robert
  Raszuk, Niels Bakker, 2013-08-29,
  <draft-ietf-idr-ix-bgp-route-server-03.txt>

      This document outlines a specification for multilateral
      interconnections at Internet exchange points (IXPs).  Multilateral
      interconnection is a method of exchanging routing information between
      three or more exterior BGP speakers using a single intermediate
      broker system, referred to as a route server.  Route servers are
      typically used on shared access media networks, such as Internet
      exchange points (IXPs), to facilitate simplified interconnection
      between multiple Internet routers.

  "Making Route Flap Damping Usable", Cristel Pelsser, Randy Bush, Keyur
  Patel, Prodosh Mohapatra, Olaf Maennel, 2013-10-10,
  <draft-ietf-idr-rfd-usable-04.txt>

      Route Flap Damping (RFD) was first proposed to reduce BGP churn in
      routers.  Unfortunately, RFD was found to severely penalize sites for
      being well-connected because topological richness amplifies the
      number of update messages exchanged.  Many operators have turned RFD
      off.  Based on experimental measurement, this document recommends
      adjusting a few RFD algorithmic constants and limits, to reduce the
      high risks with RFD, with the result being damping a non-trivial
      amount of long term churn without penalizing well-behaved prefixes'
      normal convergence process.

  "North-Bound Distribution of Link-State and TE Information using BGP",
  Hannes Gredler, Jan Medved, Stefano Previdi, Adrian Farrel, Saikat Ray,
  2013-05-21, <draft-ietf-idr-ls-distribution-03.txt>

      In a number of environments, a component external to a network is
      called upon to perform computations based on the network topology and
      current state of the connections within the network, including
      traffic engineering information.  This is information typically
      distributed by IGP routing protocols within the network
      
      This document describes a mechanism by which links state and traffic
      engineering information can be collected from networks and shared
      with external components using the BGP routing protocol.  This is
      achieved using a new BGP Network Layer Reachability Information
      (NLRI) encoding format.  The mechanism is applicable to physical and
      virtual IGP links.  The mechanism described is subject to policy
      control.
      
      Applications of this technique include Application Layer Traffic
      Optimization (ALTO) servers, and Path Computation Elements (PCEs).

  "Inter-domain SLA Exchange", Shitanshu Shah, Keyur Patel, Sandeep Bajaj,
  Luis Tomotaki, Mohamed Boucadair, 2013-06-27,
  <draft-ietf-idr-sla-exchange-01.txt>

      Network administrators typically provision QoS (Quality of Service)
      policies for their application traffic (such as voice, video) based
      on SLAs (Service Level Agreements) negotiated with their providers,
      and translate those SLAs to vendor specific configuration language.
      Both learning of SLA, either thru SLA documents or via some other
      out-of-band method, and translating them to vendor specific
      configuration language is a complex, many times manual, process and
      prone to errors.  This document proposes an in-band method of SLA
      signaling which can help to simplify some of the complexities.
      
      This document defines an operational transitive attribute to signal
      SLA details in-band, across administrative boundaries (considered as
      Autonomous Systems (AS)), thus simplify and speed-up some of the
      complex provisioning tasks.
      
      Though the use case with the proposed attribute is explicitly defined
      in this document, purpose of this attribute is not limited to this
      use case only.

  "BGP Flow-Spec Extended Community for Traffic Redirect to IP Next Hop",
  Jim Uttaro, Matthieu Texier, David Smith, Wim Henderickx, Adam Simpson,
  2013-07-14, <draft-ietf-idr-flowspec-redirect-ip-00.txt>

      Flow-spec is an extension to BGP that allows for the dissemination
      of traffic flow specification rules. This has many possible
      applications but the primary one for many network operators is the
      distribution of traffic filtering actions for DDoS mitigation. The
      flow-spec standard [RFC 5575] defines a redirect-to-VRF action for
      policy-based forwarding but this mechanism can be difficult to use,
      particularly in networks without L3 VPNs.
      
      This draft proposes a new redirect-to-IP flow-spec action that
      provides a simpler method of policy-based forwarding. This action is
      indicated by the presence of a new BGP extended community in the
      flow-spec route. Many routers already support a redirect-to-IP
      filter action and, in this case, the only new functionality implied
      by this draft is the ability to signal the action using flow-spec.

  "Reservation of Last Autonomous System (AS) Numbers", Jeffrey Haas, Jon
  Mitchell, 2013-10-15, <draft-ietf-idr-last-as-reservation-01.txt>

      This document reserves two Autonomous System numbers (ASNs) at the
      end of the 16 bit and 32 bit ranges, described in this document as
      "Last ASNs" and provides guidance to implementers and operators on
      their use.

  "IANA Registries for BGP Extended Communities", Eric Rosen, Yakov
  Rekhter, 2013-09-30, <draft-ietf-idr-extcomm-iana-01.txt>

      This document reorganizes the IANA Registries for the type values and
      sub-type values of BGP Extended Communities attribute and the BGP
      IPv6-Address-Specific Extended Communities attribute.  This is done
      in order to remove inter-dependencies among the registries, thus
      making it easier for IANA to determine which codepoints are available
      for assignment in which registries.  This document also clarifies the
      information that must be provided to IANA when requesting an
      allocation from one or more of these registries.  These changes are
      compatible with the existing allocations, and thus do not affect
      protocol implementations.  The changes will however impact the "IANA
      Considerations" sections of future protocol specifications.  This
      document updates RFCs 4360 and 5701.

INtermediary-safe SIP session ID (insipid)
------------------------------------------

  "Requirements for an End-to-End Session Identification in IP-Based
  Multimedia Communication Networks", Paul Jones, Gonzalo Salgueiro, James
  Polk, Laura Liess, Hadriel Kaplan, 2013-07-29,
  <draft-ietf-insipid-session-id-reqts-08.txt>

      This document specifies the requirements for an end-to-end session
      identifier in IP-based multimedia communication networks.  This
      identifier would enable endpoints, intermediate devices, and
      management and monitoring systems to identify a session end-to-end
      across multiple SIP devices, hops, and administrative domains.

  "End-to-End Session Identification in IP-Based Multimedia Communication
  Networks", Paul Jones, Chris Pearce, James Polk, Gonzalo Salgueiro,
  2013-07-15, <draft-ietf-insipid-session-id-02.txt>

      This document describes an end-to-end Session Identifier for use in
      IP-based Multimedia Communication systems that enables endpoints,
      intermediate devices, and management systems to identify a session
      end-to-end, associate multiple endpoints with a given multipoint
      conference, track communication sessions when they are redirected,
      and associate one or more media flows with a given communication
      session.

Internet Area (int)
-------------------

  "Mesh Link Establishment", Richard Kelsey, 2013-02-21,
  <draft-kelsey-intarea-mesh-link-establishment-05.txt>

      This document defines the mesh link establishment (MLE) protocol for
      establishing and configuring secure radio links in IEEE 802.15.4
      radio mesh networks.  MLE extends IEEE 802.15.4 for use in multihop
      mesh networks by adding three capabilities: 1) dynamically
      configuring and securing radio links, 2) enabling network-wide
      changes to radio parameters, and 3) detecting neighboring devices.
      MLE operates below the routing layer, insulating it from the details
      of configuring, securing, and maintaining individual radio links
      within a larger mesh network.

  "Updates to DHCPv4 and DHCPv6 Options for Access Network Discovery and
  Selection Function (ANDSF) Discovery", Mohamed Boucadair, 2013-08-21,
  <draft-boucadair-rfc6153-update-01.txt>

      This document updates RFC 6153 by correcting IANA allocations made
      for DHCPv4 and DHCPv6 options for Access Network Discovery and
      Selection Function (ANDSF) Discovery.  This document assigns a code
      for DHCPv6 option for ANDSF and withdraws an already assigned DHCPv4
      option code.

Internet Area Working Group (intarea)
-------------------------------------

  "Using the IPv6 Flow Label for Server Load Balancing", Brian Carpenter,
  Sheng Jiang, Willy Tarreau, 2013-10-07,
  <draft-ietf-intarea-flow-label-balancing-02.txt>

      This document describes how the IPv6 flow label as currently
      specified can be used to enhance layer 3/4 load distribution and
      balancing for large server farms.

IP Flow Information Export (ipfix)
----------------------------------

  "Operation of the IP Flow Information Export (IPFIX) Protocol on IPFIX
  Mediators", Benoit Claise, Atsushi Kobayashi, Brian Trammell,
  2013-10-04, <draft-ietf-ipfix-mediation-protocol-07.txt>

      This document specifies the operation of the IP Flow Information
      Export (IPFIX) protocol specific to IPFIX Mediators, including
      Template and Observation Point management, timing considerations, and
      other Mediator-specific concerns.

  "Exporting MIB Variables using the IPFIX Protocol", Paul Aitken, Benoit
  Claise, Colin McDowall, Jrgen Schnwlder, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-ipfix-mib-variable-export-03.txt>

      This document specifies a way to complement IPFIX Data Records with
      Management Information Base (MIB) objects, avoiding the need to
      define new IPFIX Information Elements for existing Management
      Information Base objects that are already fully specified.
      
      An IPFIX Option Template and method are specified, which are used to
      export the extra information required to fully describe Simple
      Network Management Protocol (SNMP) MIB Objects.

  "Information Elements for Data Link Layer Traffic Measurement", Shingo
  Kashima, Atsushi Kobayashi, Paul Aitken, 2013-10-09,
  <draft-ietf-ipfix-data-link-layer-monitoring-06.txt>

      This document describes Information Elements related to the data link
      layer.  They are used by the IP Flow Information Export (IPFIX)
      protocol for encoding measured data link layer traffic information.

IP Performance Metrics (ippm)
-----------------------------

  "Rate Measurement Test Protocol Problem Statement", Al Morton,
  2013-09-19, <draft-ietf-ippm-rate-problem-04.txt>

      This memo presents an access rate-measurement problem statement for
      test protocols to measure IP Performance Metrics.  The rate
      measurement scenario has wide-spread attention of Internet access
      subscribers and seemingly all industry players, including regulators.
      Key test protocol aspects require the ability to control packet size
      on the tested path and enable asymmetrical packet size testing in a
      controller-responder architecture.

  "Test Plan and Results for Advancing RFC 2680 on the Standards Track",
  Len Ciavattone, Ruediger Geib, Al Morton, Matthias Wieser, 2013-10-19,
  <draft-ietf-ippm-testplan-rfc2680-04.txt>

      This memo proposes to advance a performance metric RFC along the
      standards track, specifically RFC 2680 on One-way Loss Metrics.
      Observing that the metric definitions themselves should be the
      primary focus rather than the implementations of metrics, this memo
      describes the test procedures to evaluate specific metric requirement
      clauses to determine if the requirement has been interpreted and
      implemented as intended.  Two completely independent implementations
      have been tested against the key specifications of RFC 2680.

  "Model Based Bulk Performance Metrics", Matt Mathis, Al Morton,
  2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-ippm-model-based-metrics-01.txt>

      We introduce a new class of model based metrics designed to determine
      if a long network path can meet predefined end-to-end application
      performance targets by applying a suite of IP diagnostic tests to
      successive subpaths.  The subpath at a time tests are designed to
      exclude all known conditions which might prevent the full end-to-end
      path from meeting the user's target application performance.
      
      This approach makes it possible to to determine the IP performance
      requirements needed to support the desired end-to-end TCP
      performance.  The IP metrics are based on traffic patterns that mimic
      TCP or other transport protocol but are precomputed independently of
      the actual behavior of the transport protocol over the subpath under
      test.  This makes the measurements open loop, eliminating nearly all
      of the difficulties encountered by traditional bulk transport
      metrics, which fundamentally depend on congestion control equilibrium
      behavior.
      
      A natural consequence of this methodology is verifiable network
      measurement: measurements from any given vantage point can be
      verified by repeating them from other vantage points.
      
      Formatted: Mon Oct 21 15:42:35 PDT 2013

  "Network Performance Measurement for IPsec", Kostas Pentikousis, Yang
  Cui, Emma Zhang, 2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-ippm-ipsec-01.txt>

      IPsec is a mature technology with several interoperable
      implementations.  Indeed, the use of IPsec tunnels is increasingly
      gaining popularity in several deployment scenarios, not the least in
      what used to be solely areas of traditional telecommunication
      protocols.  Wider IPsec deployment calls for mechanisms and methods
      that enable tunnel end-users, as well as operators, to measure one-
      way and two-way network performance in a standardized manner.
      Unfortunately, however, standard IP performance measurement security
      mechanisms cannot be readily used with IPsec.  This document makes
      the case for employing IPsec to protect the One-way and Two-Way
      Active Measurement Protocols (O/TWAMP) and proposes a method which
      combines IKEv2 and O/TWAMP as defined in RFC 4656 and RFC 5357,
      respectively.  This specification aims, on the one hand, to ensure
      that O/TWAMP can be secured with the best mechanisms we have at our
      disposal today while, on the other hand, it facilitates the
      applicability of O/TWAMP to networks that have already deployed
      IPsec.

  "A Reference Path and Measurement Points for LMAP", Marcelo Bagnulo,
  Trevor Burbridge, Sam Crawford, Philip Eardley, Al Morton, 2013-09-24,
  <draft-ietf-ippm-lmap-path-01.txt>

      This document defines a reference path for Large-scale Measurement of
      Broadband Access Performance (LMAP) and measurement points for
      commonly used performance metrics.

  "Advanced Stream and Sampling Framework for IPPM", Joachim Fabini, Al
  Morton, 2013-10-16, <draft-ietf-ippm-2330-update-01.txt,.pdf>

      To obtain repeatable results in modern networks, test descriptions
      need an expanded stream parameter framework that also augments
      aspects specified as Type-P for test packets.  This memo proposes to
      update the IP Performance Metrics (IPPM) Framework with advanced
      considerations for measurement methodology and testing.  The existing
      framework mostly assumes deterministic connectivity, and that a
      single test stream will represent the characteristics of the path
      when it is aggregated with other flows.  Networks have evolved and
      test stream descriptions must evolve with them, otherwise unexpected
      network features may dominate the measured performance.  This memo
      describes new stream parameters for both network characterization and
      support of application design using IPPM metrics.

IP Security Maintenance and Extensions (ipsecme)
------------------------------------------------

  "Signature Authentication in IKEv2", Tero Kivinen, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-kivinen-ipsecme-signature-auth-02.txt>

      The Internet Key Exchange Version 2 (IKEv2) protocol has limited
      support for the Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA).
      The current version only includes support for three Elliptic Curve
      groups, and there is fixed hash algorithm tied to each curve.  This
      document generalizes the IKEv2 signature support so it can support
      any signature method supported by the PKIX and also adds signature
      hash algorithm negotiation.  This is generic mechanism, and is not
      limited to ECDSA, but can also be used with other signature
      algorithms.

  "Cryptographic Algorithm Implementation Requirements and Usage Guidance
  for Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP) and Authentication Header
  (AH)", David McGrew, Wajdi Feghali, Paul Hoffman, 2013-09-06,
  <draft-ietf-ipsecme-esp-ah-reqts-01.txt>

      This Internet Draft is standards track proposal to update to the
      Cryptographic Algorithm Implementation Requirements for ESP and AH;
      it also adds usage guidance to help in the selection of these
      algorithms.
      
      The Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP) and Authentication Header
      (AH) protocols makes use of various cryptographic algorithms to
      provide confidentiality and/or data origin authentication to
      protected data communications in the IP Security (IPsec)
      architecture.  To ensure interoperability between disparate
      implementations, the IPsec standard specifies a set of mandatory-to-
      implement algorithms.  This document specifies the current set of
      mandatory-to-implement algorithms for ESP and AH, specifies
      algorithms that should be implemented because they may be promoted to
      mandatory at some future time, and also recommends against the
      implementation of some obsolete algorithms.  Usage guidance is also
      provided to help the user of ESP and AH best achieve their security
      goals through appropriate choices of cryptographic algorithms.

  "IKEv2 Fragmentation", Valery Smyslov, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-ietf-ipsecme-ikev2-fragmentation-04.txt>

      This document describes the way to avoid IP fragmentation of large
      IKEv2 messages.  This allows IKEv2 messages to traverse network
      devices that don't allow IP fragments to pass through.

  "Internet Key Exchange Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2)", Charlie Kaufman,
  Paul Hoffman, Yoav Nir, Pasi Eronen, Tero Kivinen, 2013-10-17,
  <draft-kivinen-ipsecme-ikev2-rfc5996bis-01.txt>

      This document describes version 2 of the Internet Key Exchange (IKE)
      protocol.  IKE is a component of IPsec used for performing mutual
      authentication and establishing and maintaining Security Associations
      (SAs).  This document replaces and updates RFC 5996, and includes all
      of the errata for it, and it is intended to update IKEv2 to be
      Internet Standard.

IS-IS for IP Internets (isis)
-----------------------------

  "Transparent Interconnection of Lots of Links (TRILL) Use of IS-IS",
  Donald Eastlake, Tissa Senevirathne, Anoop Ghanwani, Dinesh Dutt, Ayan
  Banerjee, 2013-04-09, <draft-ietf-isis-rfc6326bis-01.txt>

      The IETF TRILL (Transparent Interconnection of Lots of Links)
      protocol provides optimal pair-wise data frame forwarding without
      configuration in multi-hop networks with arbitrary topology and link
      technology, and support for multipathing of both unicast and
      multicast traffic. This document specifies the data formats and code
      points for the IS-IS extensions to support TRILL. These data formats
      and code points may also be used by technologies other than TRILL.
      This document obsoletes RFC 6326.

  "IS-IS Flooding Scope LSPs", Les Ginsberg, Stefano Previdi, Yi Yang,
  2013-06-16, <draft-ginsberg-isis-fs-lsp-01.txt>

      Intermediate System To Intermediate System (IS-IS) provides efficient
      and reliable flooding of information to its peers.  However the
      current flooding scopes are limited to either area wide scope or
      domain wide scope.  There are existing use cases where support of
      other flooding scopes are desirable.  This document defines new
      Protocol Data Units (PDUs) which provide support for new flooding
      scopes as well as additional space for advertising information
      targeted for the currently supported flooding scopes.
      
      The protocol extensions defined in this document are not backwards
      compatible with existing implementations and so must be deployed with
      care.

  "IS-IS Support for Unidirectional Links", Les Ginsberg, Sina Mirtorabi,
  Stefano Previdi, Abhay Roy, 2013-07-13, <draft-ginsberg-isis-udl-01.txt>

      This document defines support for the operation of IS-IS over
      Unidirectional Links without the use of tunnels or encapsulation of
      IS-IS Protocol Data Units.  Adjacency establishment when the return
      path from the router at the receive end of a unidirectional link to
      the router at the transmit end of the unidirectional link is via
      another unidirectional link is supported.  The extensions defined
      here are backwards compatible - only the routers directly connected
      to a unidirectional link need to be upgraded.

  "IS-IS Extended Sequence number TLV", Uma Chunduri, Wenhu Lu, Albert
  Tian, Naiming Shen, 2013-06-10,
  <draft-ietf-isis-extended-sequence-no-tlv-00.txt>

      This document defines Extended Sequence number TLV to protect
      Intermediate System to Intermediate System (IS-IS) PDUs from replay
      attacks.

  "IS-IS Traffic Engineering (TE) Metric Extensions", Stefano Previdi,
  Spencer Giacalone, David Ward, John Drake, Alia Atlas, Clarence
  Filsfils, Wenson Wu, 2013-10-11,
  <draft-ietf-isis-te-metric-extensions-01.txt>

      In certain networks, such as, but not limited to, financial
      information networks (e.g. stock market data providers), network
      performance criteria (e.g. latency) are becoming as critical to data
      path selection as other metrics.
      
      This document describes extensions to IS-IS TE [RFC5305] such that
      network performance information can be distributed and collected in a
      scalable fashion.  The information distributed using ISIS TE Metric
      Extensions can then be used to make path selection decisions based on
      network performance.
      
      Note that this document only covers the mechanisms with which network
      performance information is distributed.  The mechanisms for measuring
      network performance or acting on that information, once distributed,
      are outside the scope of this document.

  "Reclassification of RFC 1142 to Historic", Mike Shand, Les Ginsberg,
  2013-08-06, <draft-ietf-isis-rfc1142-to-historic-00.txt>

      This memo reclassifies RFC 1142, OSI IS-IS Intra-domain Routing
      Protocol, to Historic status.  This memo also obsoletes RFC 1142.

  "IS-IS Flooding Scope LSPs", Les Ginsberg, Stefano Previdi, Yi Yang,
  2013-10-07, <draft-ietf-isis-fs-lsp-01.txt>

      Intermediate System To Intermediate System (IS-IS) provides efficient
      and reliable flooding of information to its peers.  However the
      current flooding scopes are limited to either area wide scope or
      domain wide scope.  There are existing use cases where support of
      other flooding scopes are desirable.  This document defines new
      Protocol Data Units (PDUs) which provide support for new flooding
      scopes as well as additional space for advertising information
      targeted for the currently supported flooding scopes.  This document
      also defines extended TLVs and sub-TLVs which are encoded using 16
      bit fields for type and length.
      
      The protocol extensions defined in this document are not backwards
      compatible with existing implementations and so must be deployed with
      care.

  "IS-IS Support for Unidirectional Links", Les Ginsberg, Sina Mirtorabi,
  Stefano Previdi, Abhay Roy, 2013-10-16, <draft-ietf-isis-udl-01.txt>

      This document defines support for the operation of IS-IS over
      Unidirectional Links without the use of tunnels or encapsulation of
      IS-IS Protocol Data Units.  Adjacency establishment when the return
      path from the router at the receive end of a unidirectional link to
      the router at the transmit end of the unidirectional link is via
      another unidirectional link is supported.  The extensions defined
      here are backwards compatible - only the routers directly connected
      to a unidirectional link need to be upgraded.

JSON data formats for vCard and iCalendar (jcardcal)
----------------------------------------------------

  "jCal: The JSON format for iCalendar", Philipp Kewisch, Cyrus Daboo,
  Mike Douglass, 2013-07-15, <draft-ietf-jcardcal-jcal-07.txt>

      This specification defines "jCal", a JSON format for iCalendar data.

  "jCard: The JSON format for vCard", Philipp Kewisch, 2013-10-15,
  <draft-ietf-jcardcal-jcard-07.txt>

      This specification defines "jCard", a JSON format for vCard data.
      The vCard data format is a text format for representing and
      exchanging information about individuals and other entities, for
      example telephone numbers, email addresses, structured names and
      delivery addresses.  JSON is a lightweight, text-based, language-
      independent data interchange format commonly used in internet
      applications.

Javascript Object Signing and Encryption (jose)
-----------------------------------------------

  "JSON Web Encryption (JWE)", Michael Jones, Eric Rescorla, Joe
  Hildebrand, 2013-10-07,
  <draft-ietf-jose-json-web-encryption-17.txt,.pdf>

      JSON Web Encryption (JWE) represents encrypted content using
      JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) based data structures.
      Cryptographic algorithms and identifiers for use with this
      specification are described in the separate JSON Web Algorithms (JWA)
      specification and IANA registries defined by that specification.
      Related digital signature and MAC capabilities are described in the
      separate JSON Web Signature (JWS) specification.

  "JSON Web Key (JWK)", Michael Jones, 2013-10-07,
  <draft-ietf-jose-json-web-key-17.txt,.pdf>

      A JSON Web Key (JWK) is a JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) data
      structure that represents a cryptographic key.  This specification
      also defines a JSON Web Key Set (JWK Set) JSON data structure for
      representing a set of JWKs.  Cryptographic algorithms and identifiers
      for use with this specification are described in the separate JSON
      Web Algorithms (JWA) specification and IANA registries defined by
      that specification.

  "JSON Web Algorithms (JWA)", Michael Jones, 2013-10-07,
  <draft-ietf-jose-json-web-algorithms-17.txt,.pdf>

      The JSON Web Algorithms (JWA) specification registers cryptographic
      algorithms and identifiers to be used with the JSON Web Signature
      (JWS), JSON Web Encryption (JWE), and JSON Web Key (JWK)
      specifications.  It defines several IANA registries for these
      identifiers.

  "JSON Web Signature (JWS)", Michael Jones, John Bradley, Nat Sakimura,
  2013-10-07, <draft-ietf-jose-json-web-signature-17.txt,.pdf>

      JSON Web Signature (JWS) represents content secured with digital
      signatures or Message Authentication Codes (MACs) using JavaScript
      Object Notation (JSON) based data structures.  Cryptographic
      algorithms and identifiers for use with this specification are
      described in the separate JSON Web Algorithms (JWA) specification and
      an IANA registry defined by that specification.  Related encryption
      capabilities are described in the separate JSON Web Encryption (JWE)
      specification.

  "Use Cases and Requirements for JSON Object Signing and Encryption
  (JOSE)", Richard Barnes, 2013-09-05, <draft-ietf-jose-use-cases-05.txt>

      Many Internet applications have a need for object-based security
      mechanisms in addition to security mechanisms at the network layer or
      transport layer.  In the past, the Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)
      has provided a binary secure object format based on ASN.1.  Over
      time, the use of binary object encodings such as ASN.1 has been
      overtaken by text-based encodings, for example JavaScript Object
      Notation.  This document defines a set of use cases and requirements
      for a secure object format encoded using JavaScript Object Notation
      (JSON), drawn from a variety of application security mechanisms
      currently in development.

JavaScript Object Notation (json)
---------------------------------

  "The JSON Data Interchange Format", Tim Bray, 2013-10-11,
  <draft-ietf-json-rfc4627bis-06.txt>

      JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) is a lightweight, text-based,
      language-independent data interchange format.  It was derived from
      the ECMAScript Programming Language Standard.  JSON defines a small
      set of formatting rules for the portable representation of structured
      data.

Keying and Authentication for Routing Protocols (karp)
------------------------------------------------------

  "Database of Long-Lived Symmetric Cryptographic Keys", Russ Housley, Tim
  Polk, Sam Hartman, Dacheng Zhang, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-karp-crypto-key-table-09.txt>

      This document specifies the information contained in a conceptual
      database of long-lived cryptographic keys used by many different
      routing  protocols for message security.  The database is designed to
      support both manual and automated key management.  In addition to
      describing the schema for the database, this document describes the
      operations that can be performed on the database as well as the
      requirements for the routing protocols that wish to use the database.
      In many typical scenarios, the protocols do not directly use the
      long-lived key, but rather a key derivation function is used to
      derive a short-lived key from a long-lived key.

  "Operations Model for Router Keying", Sam Hartman, Dacheng Zhang,
  2013-10-11, <draft-ietf-karp-ops-model-09.txt>

      The IETF is engaged in an effort to analyze security of routing
      protocol authentication according to design guidelines discussed in
      RFC 6518.  Developing an operational and management model for routing
      protocol security that works with all the routing protocols will be
      critical to the deployability of these efforts.  This document gives
      recommendations to operators and implementors regarding management
      and operation of router authentication.  These recommendations will
      also assist protocol designers in understanding management issues
      they will face.

  "KARP IS-IS security analysis", Uma Chunduri, Albert Tian, Wenhu Lu,
  2013-10-19, <draft-ietf-karp-isis-analysis-01.txt>

      This document analyzes the threats applicable for Intermediate system
      to Intermediate system (IS-IS) routing protocol and security gaps
      according to the KARP Design Guide.  This document also provides
      specific requirements to address the gaps with both manual and auto
      key management protocols.

  "Analysis of Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) Security According
  to KARP Design Guide", Manav Bhatia, Dacheng Zhang, Mahesh Jethanandani,
  2013-09-10, <draft-ietf-karp-bfd-analysis-01.txt>

      This document analyzes the Bidirectional Forwarding Detection
      protocol (BFD) according to the guidelines set forth in section 4.2
      of KARP Design Guidelines [RFC6518].

Common Authentication Technology Next Generation (kitten)
---------------------------------------------------------

  "Namespace Considerations and Registries for GSS-API Extensions", Nico
  Williams, Alexey Melnikov, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-ietf-kitten-gssapi-extensions-iana-08.txt>

      This document describes the ways in which the GSS-API may be extended
      and directs the creation of an IANA registry for various GSS-API
      namespaces.

  "SAML Enhanced Client SASL and GSS-API Mechanisms", Scott Cantor, Simon
  Josefsson, 2013-09-23, <draft-ietf-kitten-sasl-saml-ec-10.txt>

      Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) 2.0 is a generalized
      framework for the exchange of security-related information between
      asserting and relying parties.  Simple Authentication and Security
      Layer (SASL) and the Generic Security Service Application Program
      Interface (GSS-API) are application frameworks to facilitate an
      extensible authentication model.  This document specifies a SASL and
      GSS-API mechanism for SAML 2.0 that leverages the capabilities of a
      SAML-aware "enhanced client" to address significant barriers to
      federated authentication in a manner that encourages reuse of
      existing SAML bindings and profiles designed for non-browser
      scenarios.

  "A set of SASL Mechanisms for OAuth", William Mills, Tim Showalter,
  Hannes Tschofenig, 2013-10-17, <draft-ietf-kitten-sasl-oauth-11.txt>

      OAuth enables a third-party application to obtain limited access to a
      protected resource, either on behalf of a resource owner by
      orchestrating an approval interaction, or by allowing the third-party
      application to obtain access on its own behalf.
      
      This document defines how an application client uses credentials
      obtained via OAuth over the Simple Authentication and Security Layer
      (SASL) to access a protected resource at a resource serve.  Thereby,
      it enables schemes defined within the OAuth framework for non-HTTP-
      based application protocols.
      
      Clients typically store the user's long-term credential.  This does,
      however, lead to significant security vulnerabilities, for example,
      when such a credential leaks.  A significant benefit of OAuth for
      usage in those clients is that the password is replaced by a shared
      secret with higher entropy, i.e., the token.  Tokens typically
      provide limited access rights and can be managed and revoked
      separately from the user's long-term password.

  "Kerberos Authorization Data Container Authenticated by Multiple MACs",
  Simo Sorce, Tom Yu, Thomas Hardjono, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-krb-wg-cammac-06.txt>

      Abstract: This document specifies a Kerberos Authorization Data
      container that supersedes AD-KDC-ISSUED.  It allows for multiple
      Message Authentication Codes (MACs) or signatures to authenticate the
      contained Authorization Data elements.

  "Move Kerberos protocol parameter registries to IANA", Tom Yu,
  2013-07-14, <draft-ietf-kitten-kerberos-iana-registries-02.txt>

      The Keberos 5 network authentication protocol has several numeric
      protocol parameters.  Most of these parameters are not currently
      under IANA maintenance.  This document requests that IANA take over
      the maintenance of the remainder of these Kerberos parameters.

  "AES Encryption with HMAC-SHA2 for Kerberos 5", Kelley Burgin, Michael
  Peck, 2013-06-28, <draft-ietf-kitten-aes-cts-hmac-sha2-01.txt>

      This document specifies two encryption types and two corresponding
      checksum types for Kerberos 5.  The new types use AES in CTS mode
      (CBC mode with ciphertext stealing) for confidentiality and HMAC with
      a SHA-2 hash for integrity.

  "Channel Binding Signalling for the Generic Security Services
  Application Programming Interface", Nico Williams, 2013-07-07,
  <draft-ietf-kitten-channel-bound-flag-00.txt>

      Channel binding is a technique that allows applications to use a
      secure channel at a lower layer without having to use authentication
      at that lower layer.  The concept of channel binding comes from the
      Generic Security Services Application Programming Interface (GSS-
      API).  It turns out that the semantics commonly implemented are
      different that those specified in the base GSS-API RFC (RFC2743), and
      that that specification has a serious bug.  This document addresses
      both, the inconsistency as-implemented and the specification bug.
      
      This Internet-Draft proposes the addition of a "channel bound" return
      flag for the GSS_Init_sec_context() and GSS_Accept_sec_context()
      functions.  Two behaviors are specified: a default, safe behavior
      reflecting existing implementation deployments, and a behavior that
      is only safe when the application specifically tells the GSS-API that
      it (the application) supports the new behavior.  Additional API
      elements related to this are also added, including a new security
      context establishment API.

  "AES Encryption with HMAC-SHA2 for Kerberos 5", Michael Jenkins, Michael
  Peck, Kelley Burgin, 2013-10-01,
  <draft-ietf-kitten-aes-cbc-hmac-sha2-00.txt>

      This document specifies two encryption types and two corresponding
      checksum types for Kerberos 5.  The new types use AES in CBC mode
      with plaintext padding for confidentiality and HMAC with a SHA-2 hash
      for integrity.

Layer 2 Virtual Private Networks (l2vpn)
----------------------------------------

  "IP-Only LAN Service (IPLS)", Himanshu Shah, Eric Rosen, Francois Le
  Faucheur, Giles Heron, 2013-07-15, <draft-ietf-l2vpn-ipls-12.txt>

      A Virtual Private LAN Service (VPLS) [VPLS] is used to interconnect
      systems across a wide-area or metropolitan-area network, making it
      appear that they are on a private LAN.  The systems which are
      interconnected may themselves be LAN switches.  If, however, they
      are IP hosts or IP routers, certain simplifications to the operation
      of the VPLS are possible.  We call this simplified type of VPLS an
      "IP-only LAN Service" (IPLS).  In an IPLS, as in a VPLS, LAN
      interfaces are run in promiscuous mode, and frames are forwarded
      based on their destination MAC addresses.  However, the maintenance
      of the MAC forwarding tables is done via signaling, rather than via
      the MAC address learning procedures specified in [IEEE 802.1D].
      This draft specifies the protocol extensions and procedures for
      support of the IPLS service.

  "Multicast in VPLS", Rahul Aggarwal, Yakov Rekhter, Yuji Kamite, Luyuan
  Fang, 2013-10-02, <draft-ietf-l2vpn-vpls-mcast-15.txt>

      [RFC4761] and [RFC4762] describe a solution for Virtual Private LAN
      Service (VPLS) multicast that relies on the use of point-to-point or
      multipoint-to-point unicast Label Switched Paths (LSPs) for carrying
      multicast traffic. This solution has certain limitations for certain
      VPLS multicast traffic profiles. For example, it may result in highly
      non-optimal bandwidth utilization when large amount of multicast
      traffic is to be transported.
      
      This document describes solutions for overcoming a subset of the
      limitations of existing VPLS multicast solution. It describes
      procedures for VPLS multicast that utilize multicast trees in the
      service provider (SP) network. The solution described in this
      document allows sharing of one such multicast tree among multiple
      VPLS instances. Furthermore, the solution described in this document
      allows a single multicast tree in the SP network to carry traffic
      belonging only to a specified set of one or more IP multicast streams
      from one or more VPLS instances.

  "PIM Snooping over VPLS", Olivier Dornon, Jayant Kotalwar, Venu Hemige,
  Ray Qiu, 2013-10-08, <draft-ietf-l2vpn-vpls-pim-snooping-05.txt>

      This document describes the procedures and recommendations for VPLS
      PEs to facilitate replication of multicast traffic to only certain
      ports (behind which there are interested PIM routers and/or IGMP
      hosts) via PIM Snooping and PIM Proxy.
      
      With PIM Snooping, PEs passively listen to certain PIM control
      messages to build control and forwarding states while transparently
      flooding those messages.  With PIM Proxy, PEs do not flood PIM Join/
      Prune messages but only generate their own and send out of certain
      ports, based on the control states built from downstream Join/Prune
      messages.  PIM Proxy is required when PIM Join suppression is enabled
      on the CE devices and useful to reduce PIM control traffic in a VPLS
      domain.
      
      The document also describes PIM Relay, which can be viewed as light-
      weight proxy, where all downstream Join/Prune messages are simply
      forwarded out of certain ports but not flooded to avoid triggering
      PIM Join suppression on CE devices.

  "Virtual Private Lan Services (VPLS) Management Information Base",
  Thomas Nadeau, Kiran Koushik, Rohit Mediratta, 2013-10-04,
  <draft-ietf-l2vpn-vpls-mib-12.txt>

      This memo defines an experimental portion of the Management
      Information Base for use with network management protocols in the
      Internet community.  In particular, it describes managed objects for
      modeling of Virtual Private LAN services. It needs to be used in
      conjunction with Pseudowire (PW) Management Information Base
      [RFC5601].

  "Extensions to VPLS PE model for Provider Backbone Bridging", Florin
  Balus, Ali Sajassi, Nabil Bitar, 2013-06-13,
  <draft-ietf-l2vpn-pbb-vpls-pe-model-07.txt>

      IEEE 802.1 Provider Backbone Bridges (PBB) [IEEE.802.1Q-2011] defines
      an architecture and bridge protocols for interconnection of multiple
      Provider Bridge Networks (PBNs). PBB was defined in IEEE as a
      connectionless technology based on multipoint VLAN tunnels.  PBB can
      be used to attain better scalability in terms of number of customer
      MAC addresses and number of service instances that can be supported.
      
      Virtual Private LAN Service (VPLS) [RFC4664] provides a framework for
      extending Ethernet LAN services, using MPLS tunneling capabilities,
      through a routed MPLS backbone without running RSTP or MSTP across
      the backbone. As a result, VPLS has been deployed on a large scale in
      service provider networks.
      
      This draft discusses extensions to the VPLS Provider Edge (PE) model
      required to incorporate desirable PBB components while maintaining
      the Service Provider fit of the initial model.

  "BGP based Multi-homing in Virtual Private LAN Service", Bhupesh
  Kothari, Kireeti Kompella, Wim Henderickx, Florin Balus, Jim Uttaro,
  Senad Palislamovic, Wen Lin, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-ietf-l2vpn-vpls-multihoming-06.txt>

      Virtual Private LAN Service (VPLS) is a Layer 2 Virtual Private
      Network (VPN) that gives its customers the appearance that their
      sites are connected via a Local Area Network (LAN).  It is often
      required for the Service Provider (SP) to give the customer redundant
      connectivity to some sites, often called "multi-homing".  This memo
      shows how BGP-based multi-homing can be offered in the context of LDP
      and BGP VPLS solutions.

  "VPLS Interoperability with Provider Backbone Bridges", Ali Sajassi,
  Samer Salam, Nabil Bitar, Florin Balus, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-l2vpn-pbb-vpls-interop-06.txt>

      The scalability of Hierarchical Virtual Private LAN Service (H-VPLS)
      with Ethernet access networks [RFC4762] can be improved by
      incorporating Provider Backbone Bridge functionality in the VPLS
      access. Provider Backbone Bridging has been standardized as IEEE
      802.1ah-2008, and aims to improve the scalability of MAC addresses
      and service instances in Provider Ethernet networks. This document
      describes different interoperability scenarios where Provider
      Backbone Bridge functionality is used in H-VPLS with Ethernet or MPLS
      access network to attain better scalability in terms of number of
      customer MAC addresses and number of service instances. The document
      also describes the scenarios and the mechanisms for incorporating
      Provider Backbone Bridge functionality within H-VPLS with existing
      Ethernet access and interoperability among them. Furthermore, the
      document discusses the migration mechanisms and scenarios by which
      Provider Backbone Bridge functionality can be incorporated into H-
      VPLS with existing MPLS access.

  "Extension to LDP-VPLS for Ethernet Broadcast and Multicast", Frederic
  JOUNAY, Yuji Kamite, Zhihua Liu, Manuel Paul, Ruediger Kunze, Mach Chen,
  Lizhong Jin, 2013-09-10,
  <draft-ietf-l2vpn-ldp-vpls-broadcast-exten-06.txt>

      This document proposes a simple extension to LDP-VPLS to improve 
      bandwidth efficiency for Ethernet broadcast/multicast traffic 
      within a carrier's network. It makes use of unidirectional 
      point-to-multipoint PseudoWires to minimise payload frame duplication
      on physical links.

  "Requirements for Metro Ethernet Forum (MEF) Ethernet-Tree (E-Tree)
  Support in L2VPN", Simon DeLord, Frederic JOUNAY, Lu Huang, Zhihua Liu,
  Manuel Paul, 2013-07-29, <draft-ietf-l2vpn-etree-reqt-05.txt>

      This document provides functional requirements for Metro Ethernet
      Forum (MEF) Ethernet Tree (E-Tree) support in multipoint L2VPN
      solutions (referred to as simply L2VPN). It is intended that
      potential solutions will use these requirements as guidelines.

  "A Framework for E-Tree Service over MPLS Network", Raymond Key, Simon
  DeLord, Frederic JOUNAY, Lucy Yong, Lizhong Jin, Yuji Kamite, Wim
  Henderickx, 2013-09-06, <draft-ietf-l2vpn-etree-frwk-03.txt>

      This document proposes a solution framework for supporting Metro
      Ethernet Forum (MEF) Ethernet Tree (E-Tree) services over a
      Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) network. The objective is to
      provide a simple and effective approach to emulate E-Tree services
      in addition to Ethernet LAN (E-LAN) services on an existing MPLS
      network.

  "BGP MPLS Based Ethernet VPN", Ali Sajassi, Rahul Aggarwal, Wim
  Henderickx, Florin Balus, Aldrin Isaac, Jim Uttaro, 2013-07-14,
  <draft-ietf-l2vpn-evpn-04.txt>

      This document describes procedures for BGP MPLS based Ethernet VPNs
      (EVPN).

  "PBB-EVPN", Ali Sajassi, Samer Salam, Sami Boutros, Nabil Bitar, Aldrin
  Isaac, Lizhong Jin, 2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-l2vpn-pbb-evpn-06.txt>

      This document discusses how Ethernet Provider Backbone Bridging
      [802.1ah] can be combined with EVPN in order to reduce the number of
      BGP MAC advertisement routes by aggregating Customer/Client MAC (C-
      MAC) addresses via Provider Backbone MAC address (B-MAC), provide
      client MAC address mobility using C-MAC aggregation and B-MAC sub-
      netting, confine the scope of C-MAC learning to only active flows,
      offer per site policies and avoid C-MAC address flushing on topology
      changes. The combined solution is referred to as PBB-EVPN.
      
      Conventions

  "Requirements for Ethernet VPN (EVPN)", Ali Sajassi, Rahul Aggarwal,
  Nabil Bitar, Aldrin Isaac, 2013-10-15,
  <draft-ietf-l2vpn-evpn-req-05.txt>

      The widespread adoption of Ethernet L2VPN services and the advent of
      new applications for the technology (e.g., data center interconnect)
      have culminated in a new set of requirements that are not readily
      addressable by the current Virtual Private LAN Service (VPLS)
      solution. In particular, multi-homing with all-active forwarding is
      not supported and there's no existing solution to leverage
      Multipoint-to-Multipoint (MP2MP) LSPs for optimizing the delivery of
      multi-destination frames. Furthermore, the provisioning of VPLS, even
      in the context of BGP-based auto-discovery, requires network
      operators to specify various network parameters on top of the access
      configuration. This document specifies the requirements for an
      Ethernet VPN (EVPN) solution which addresses the above issues.

  "TRILL-EVPN", Ali Sajassi, Samer Salam, Nabil Bitar, Sam Aldrin,
  2013-10-10, <draft-ietf-l2vpn-trill-evpn-01.txt>

      This document discusses how Ethernet VPN (E-VPN) technology is used
      to interconnect TRILL [TRILL] networks over an MPLS/IP network, with
      two key characteristics: C-MAC address transparency on the hand-off
      point and control-plane isolation among the interconnected TRILL
      networks.
      
      Conventions

  "VPLS PE Model for E-Tree Support", Yuanlong Jiang, Lucy Yong, Manuel
  Paul, Frederic JOUNAY, Florin Balus, Wim Henderickx, Ali Sajassi,
  2013-10-09, <draft-ietf-l2vpn-vpls-pe-etree-02.txt>

      A generic VPLS solution for E-Tree services is proposed which uses
      VLANs to indicate root/leaf traffic. A VPLS Provider Edge (PE) model
      is illustrated as an example for the solution. In the solution, E-
      Tree VPLS PEs are interconnected by PWs which carry the VLAN
      indicating the E-Tree attribute, the MAC address based Ethernet
      forwarding engine and the PW work in the same way as before. A
      signaling mechanism for E-Tree capability and VLAN mapping
      negotiation is further described.

  "Redundancy provisioning for VPLS Inter-domain", Zhihua Liu, Lizhong
  Jin, Ran Chen, Dennis Cai, Samer Salam, 2013-07-12,
  <draft-ietf-l2vpn-vpls-inter-domain-redundancy-02.txt>

      In many VPLS deployments based on [RFC4762], inter-domain
      connectivity has been deployed without node redundancy, or with node
      redundancy in a single domain.  This document describes a solution
      for inter-domain VPLS based on RFC4762 with node and link redundancy
      in both domains.

  "Shortest Path Bridging, MAC mode Support over EVPN", David Allan, Jeff
  Tantsura, Don Fedyk, Ali Sajassi, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-l2vpn-spbm-evpn-00.txt>

      This document describes how Ethernet Shortest Path Bridging MAC mode
      (802.1aq) can be combined with EVPN in a way that interworks with
      PBB-PEs as described in the PBB-EVPN solution. This is achieved via
      operational isolation of each Ethernet network subtending an EVPN
      core while supporting full interworking between the different
      variations of Ethernet networks.

Layer 3 Virtual Private Networks (l3vpn)
----------------------------------------

  "BGP ACCEPT_OWN Community Attribute", Jim Uttaro, Pradosh Mohapatra,
  David Smith, Robert Raszuk, John Scudder, 2013-10-02,
  <draft-ietf-l3vpn-acceptown-community-07.txt>

      Under certain conditions it is desirable for a BGP route reflector to
      be able to modify the Route Target list of a VPN route that is
      distributed by the route reflector, enabling the route reflector to
      control how a route originated within one VRF is imported into other
      VRFs.  This technique works effectively as long as the VRF that
      exports the route is not on the same PE as the VRF(s) that import the
      route.  However, due to the constraints of the BGP protocol, it does
      not work if the two are on the same PE.  This document describes a
      modification to the BGP protocol allowing this technique to work when
      the VRFs are on the same PE, allowing the technique to be used in a
      standard manner throughout an autonomous system.

  "MVPN: Using Bidirectional P-Tunnels", Eric Rosen, IJsbrand Wijnands,
  Yiqun Cai, Arjen Boers, 2013-10-04, <draft-ietf-l3vpn-mvpn-bidir-06.txt>

      A set of prior RFCs specify procedures for supporting multicast in
      BGP/MPLS IP VPNs.  These procedures allow customer multicast data to
      travel across a service provider's backbone network through a set of
      multicast tunnels.  The tunnels are advertised in certain BGP "auto-
      discovery" routes, by means of a BGP attribute known as the "Provider
      Multicast Service Interface (PMSI) Tunnel attribute".  Encodings have
      been defined that allow the PMSI Tunnel attribute to identify
      bidirectional (multipoint-to-multipoint) multicast distribution
      trees.  However, the prior RFCs do not provide all the necessary
      procedures for using bidirectional tunnels to support multicast VPNs.
      This document updates RFCs 6513 and 6625 by specifying those
      procedures.  In particular, it specifies the procedures for assigning
      customer multicast flows (unidirectional or bidirectional) to
      specific bidirectional tunnels in the provider backbone, for
      advertising such assignments, and for determining which flows have
      been assigned to which tunnels.

  "MPLS/BGP Layer 3 VPN Multicast Management Information Base", Saud Asif,
  Andy Green, Sameer Gulrajani, Pradeep Jain, Jeffrey Zhang, 2013-10-11,
  <draft-ietf-l3vpn-mvpn-mib-04.txt>

      This memo defines an portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
      for use with network management protocols in the Internet community.
      
      In particular, it describes managed objects to configure and/or
      monitor multicast in MPLS/BGP-based Layer-3 VPN (MVPN) on an MVPN
      router.

  "BGP-signaled end-system IP/VPNs.", Pedro Marques, Luyuan Fang, Ping
  Pan, Amit Shukla, Maria Napierala, Nabil Bitar, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-l3vpn-end-system-02.txt>

      This document describes a solution in which the control plane
      protocol specified in BGP/MPLS IP VPNs [RFC4364] is used to provide a
      Virtual Network service to end-systems.  These end-systems may be
      used to provide network services or may directly host end-to-end
      applications.

  "Encoding mLDP FECs in the NLRI of BGP MCAST-VPN Routes", IJsbrand
  Wijnands, Eric Rosen, Uwe Joorde, 2013-05-15,
  <draft-ietf-l3vpn-mvpn-mldp-nlri-01.txt>

      Many service providers offer "BGP/MPLS IP VPN" service to their
      customers.  Existing IETF standards specify the procedures and
      protocols that a service provider uses in order to offer this service
      to customers who have IP unicast and IP multicast traffic in their
      VPNs.  It is also desirable to be able to support customers who have
      MPLS multicast traffic in their VPNs.  This document specifies the
      procedures and protocol extensions that are needed to support
      customers who use the Multicast Extensions to Label Distribution
      Protocol (mLDP) as the control protocol for their MPLS multicast
      traffic.  Existing standards do provide some support for customers
      who use mLDP, but only under a restrictive set of circumstances.
      This document generalizes the existing support to include all cases
      where the customer uses mLDP, without any restrictions.

  "Multipoint Label Distribution Protocol In-Band Signaling in a VRF
  Context", IJsbrand Wijnands, Paul Hitchen, Nicolai Leymann, Wim
  Henderickx,  arkadiy.gulko@thomsonreuters.com, 2013-06-21,
  <draft-ietf-l3vpn-mldp-vrf-in-band-signaling-01.txt>

      Sometimes an IP multicast distribution tree (MDT) traverses both
      MPLS-enabled and non-MPLS-enabled regions of a network.  Typically
      the MDT begins and ends in non-MPLS regions, but travels through an
      MPLS region.  In such cases, it can be useful to begin building the
      MDT as a pure IP MDT, then convert it to an MPLS Multipoint LSP
      (Label Switched Path) when it enters an MPLS-enabled region, and then
      convert it back to a pure IP MDT when it enters a non-MPLS-enabled
      region.  Other documents specify the procedures for building such a
      hybrid MDT, using Protocol Independent Multicast (PIM) in the non-
      MPLS region of the network, and using Multipoint Extensions to Label
      Distribution Protocol (mLDP) in the MPLS region.  This document
      extends those procedures to handle the case where the link connecting
      the two regions is a "Virtual Routing and Forwarding Table" (VRF)
      link, as defined in the "BGP IP/MPLS VPN" specifications.  However,
      this document is primarily aimed at particular use cases where VRFs
      are used to support multicast applications other than Multicast VPN.

  "Extranet Multicast in BGP/IP MPLS VPNs", Yakov Rekhter, Eric Rosen,
  Rahul Aggarwal, Yiqun Cai, Wim Henderickx, Thomas Morin, Praveen Muley,
  Ray Qiu, IJsbrand Wijnands, 2013-08-06,
  <draft-ietf-l3vpn-mvpn-extranet-02.txt>

      Previous RFCs specify the procedures necessary to allow IP multicast
      traffic to travel from one site to another within a BGP/MPLS IP VPN
      (Virtual Private Network).  However, it is sometimes desirable to
      allow multicast traffic whose source is in one VPN to be received by
      systems that are in another VPN.  This is known as a "Multicast VPN
      (MVPN) extranet".  This document updates RFCs 6513, 6514, and 6625 by
      specifying the procedures that are necessary in order to provide MVPN
      extranet service.

  "BGP as an MVPN PE-CE Protocol", Keyur Patel, Yakov Rekhter, Eric Rosen,
  2013-10-05, <draft-ietf-l3vpn-mvpn-pe-ce-00.txt>

      When a Service Provider offers BGP/MPLS IP VPN service to its
      customers, RFCs 6513 and 6514 describe protocols and procedures that
      the Service Provider can use in order to carry the customer's IP
      multicast traffic from one customer site to others.  BGP can be used
      to carry customer multicast routing information from one Provider
      Edge (PE) router to another, but it is assumed that PIM is running on
      the interface between a Customer Edge (CE) router and a PE router.
      This document specifies protocols and procedures that, under certain
      conditions, allow customer multicast routing information to carried
      between PE and CE via BGP.  This can eliminate the need to run PIM on
      the PE-CE interfaces, potentially eliminating the need to run PIM on
      the PE routers at all.

  "L2L3 VPN Multicast MIB", Jeffrey Zhang, 2013-10-14,
  <draft-ietf-l3vpn-l2l3-vpn-mcast-mib-01.txt>

      This memo defines an experimental portion of the Management
      Information Base for use with network management protocols in the
      Internet community.
      
      In particular, it describes managed objects common to both VPLS and
      VPN Multicast.

Locator/ID Separation Protocol (lisp)
-------------------------------------

  "LISP MIB", Gregg Schudel, Amit Jain, Victor Moreno, 2013-09-13,
  <draft-ietf-lisp-mib-13.txt>

      This document defines the MIB module that contains managed objects to
      support the monitoring devices that support the Locator/ID Separation
      Protocol (LISP).  These objects provide information useful for
      monitoring LISP devices, including determining basic LISP
      configuration information, LISP functional status, and operational
      counters and other statistics.

  "LISP Network Element Deployment Considerations", Lorand Jakab, Albert
  Cabellos-Aparicio, Florin Coras, Jordi Domingo-Pascual, Darrel Lewis,
  2013-08-06, <draft-ietf-lisp-deployment-10.txt>

      This document is a snapshot of different Locator/Identifier
      Separation Protocol (LISP) deployment scenarios.  It discusses the
      placement of new network elements introduced by the protocol,
      representing the thinking of the authors as of Summer 2013.  LISP
      deployment scenarios may have evolved since.  This memo represents
      one stable point in that evolution of understanding.

  "LISP EID Block", Luigi Iannone, Darrel Lewis, David Meyer, Vince
  Fuller, 2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-lisp-eid-block-06.txt>

      This is a direction to IANA to allocate a /16 IPv6 prefix for use
      with the Locator/ID Separation Protocol (LISP).  The prefix will be
      used for local intra-domain routing and global endpoint
      identification, by sites deploying LISP as EID (Endpoint IDentifier)
      addressing space.

  "LISP-Security (LISP-SEC)", Fabio Maino, Vina Ermagan, Albert
  Cabellos-Aparicio, Damien Saucez, Olivier Bonaventure, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-lisp-sec-05.txt>

      This memo specifies LISP-SEC, a set of security mechanisms that
      provide origin authentication, integrity and anti-replay protection
      to LISP's EID-to-RLOC mapping data conveyed via mapping lookup
      process.  LISP-SEC also enables verification of authorization on EID-
      prefix claims in Map-Reply messages.

  "LISP Threats Analysis", Damien Saucez, Luigi Iannone, Olivier
  Bonaventure, 2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-lisp-threats-08.txt>

      This document proposes a threat analysis of the Locator/Identifier
      Separation Protocol (LISP) if deployed in the Internet.

  "LISP Canonical Address Format (LCAF)", Dino Farinacci, David Meyer, Job
  Snijders, 2013-09-16, <draft-ietf-lisp-lcaf-03.txt>

      This draft defines a canonical address format encoding used in LISP
      control messages and in the encoding of lookup keys for the LISP
      Mapping Database System.

  "An Architectural Introduction to the LISP Location-Identity Separation
  System", J. Chiappa, 2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-lisp-introduction-03.txt>

      LISP is an upgrade to the architecture of the IP internetworking
      system, one which separates location and identity properties
      (previously intermingled in IP addresses).  This document is an
      introductory overview of the entire LISP system, and focuses on
      describing the major concepts and functional sub-systems of LISP, and
      the interactions between them.

Large-Scale Measurement of Broadband Performance (lmap)
-------------------------------------------------------

  "A framework for large-scale measurement platforms (LMAP)", Philip
  Eardley, Al Morton, Marcelo Bagnulo, Trevor Burbridge, Paul Aitken,
  Aamer Akhter, 2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-lmap-framework-01.txt>

      Measuring broadband service on a large scale requires standardisation
      of the logical architecture and a description of the key protocols
      that coordinate interactions between the components.  The document
      presents an overall framework for large-scale measurements.  It also
      defines terminology for LMAP (large-scale measurement platforms).
      The document is a contribution towards the LMAP working group's
      milestone.

  "Large-Scale Broadband Measurement Use Cases", Marc Linsner, Philip
  Eardley, Trevor Burbridge, 2013-10-06,
  <draft-ietf-lmap-use-cases-00.txt>

      Measuring broadband performance on a large scale is important for
      network diagnostics by providers and users, as well for as public
      policy.  To conduct such measurements, user networks gather data,
      either on their own initiative or instructed by a measurement
      controller, and then upload the measurement results to a designated
      measurement server.  Understanding the various scenarios and users of
      measuring broadband performance is essential to development of the
      system requirements.  The details of the measurement metrics
      themselves are beyond the scope of this document.

Light-Weight Implementation Guidance (lwig)
-------------------------------------------

  "Terminology for Constrained Node Networks", Carsten Bormann, Mehmet
  Ersue, Ari Keranen, 2013-07-09, <draft-ietf-lwig-terminology-05.txt>

      The Internet Protocol Suite is increasingly used on small devices
      with severe constraints, creating constrained node networks.  This
      document provides a number of basic terms that have turned out to be
      useful in the standardization work for constrained environments.

  "Minimal IKEv2", Tero Kivinen, 2013-10-17,
  <draft-ietf-lwig-ikev2-minimal-01.txt>

      This document describes minimal version of the Internet Key Exchange
      version 2 (IKEv2) protocol.  IKEv2 is a component of IPsec used for
      performing mutual authentication and establishing and maintaining
      Security Associations (SAs).  IKEv2 includes several optional
      features, which are not needed in minimal implementations.  This
      document describes what is required from the minimal implementation,
      and also describes various optimizations which can be done.  The
      protocol described here is compliant with full IKEv2 with exception
      that this document describes mainly shared secret authentication
      (IKEv2 requires support for certificate authentication in addition to
      shared secret authentication).
      
      This document does not update or modify RFC 5996, but provides more
      compact description of the minimal version of the protocol.  If this
      document and RFC 5996 conflicts then RFC 5996 is the authoritative
      description.

  "Building Power-Efficient CoAP Devices for Cellular Networks", Jari
  Arkko, Anders Eriksson, Ari Keranen, 2013-08-14,
  <draft-ietf-lwig-cellular-00.txt>

      This memo discusses the use of the Constrained Application Protocol
      (CoAP) protocol in building sensors and other devices that employ
      cellular networks as a communications medium.  Building communicating
      devices that employ these networks is obviously well known, but this
      memo focuses specifically on techniques necessary to minimize power
      consumption.

  "A Hitchhiker's Guide to the (Datagram) Transport Layer Security
  Protocol for Smart Objects and Constrained Node Networks", Sandeep
  Kumar, Sye Keoh, Hannes Tschofenig, 2013-09-04,
  <draft-ietf-lwig-tls-minimal-00.txt>

      Transport Layer Security (TLS) is a widely used security protocol
      that offers communication security services at the transport layer.
      The initial design of TLS was focused on the protection of
      applications running on top of the Transmission Control Protocol
      (TCP), and was a good match for securing the Hypertext Transfer
      Protocol (HTTP).  Subsequent standardization efforts lead to the
      publication of the Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) protocol,
      which allows the re-use of the TLS security functionality and the
      payloads to be exchanged on top of the User Datagram Protocol (UDP).
      
      With the work on the Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP), as a
      specialized web transfer protocol for use with constrained nodes and
      constrained networks, DTLS is a preferred communication security
      protocol.
      
      Smart objects are constrained in various ways (e.g., CPU, memory,
      power consumption) and these limitations may impose restrictions on
      the protocol stack such a device runs. This document only looks at
      the security part of that protocol stacks and the ability to
      customize TLS/DTLS. To offer input for implementers and system
      architects this document illustrates the costs and benefits of
      various TLS/DTLS features for use with smart objects and constraint
      node networks.

Mobile Ad-hoc Networks (manet)
------------------------------

  "The Optimized Link State Routing Protocol version 2", Thomas Clausen,
  Christopher Dearlove, Philippe Jacquet, Ulrich Herberg, 2013-03-23,
  <draft-ietf-manet-olsrv2-19.txt>

      This specification describes version 2 of the Optimized Link State
      Routing (OLSRv2) protocol for Mobile Ad hoc NETworks (MANETs).

  "Definition of Managed Objects for the Manet Simplified Multicast
  Framework Relay Set Process", Robert Cole, Joseph Macker, Brian Adamson,
  2013-09-02, <draft-ietf-manet-smf-mib-08.txt,.ps,.pdf>

      This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
      for use with network management protocols in the Internet community.
      In particular, it describes objects for configuring aspects of the
      Simplified Multicast Forwarding (SMF) process for Mobile Ad-Hoc
      Networks (MANETs).  The SMF-MIB also reports state information,
      performance metrics, and notifications.  In addition to
      configuration, the additional state and performance information is
      useful to operators troubleshooting multicast forwarding problems.

  "Definition of Managed Objects for the Optimized Link State Routing
  Protocol version 2", Ulrich Herberg, Robert Cole, Thomas Clausen,
  2013-06-24, <draft-ietf-manet-olsrv2-mib-12.txt>

      This document defines the Management Information Base (MIB) module
      for configuring and managing the Optimized Link State Routing
      protocol version 2 (OLSRv2).  The OLSRv2-MIB module is structured
      into configuration information, state information, performance
      information, and notifications.  This additional state and
      performance information is useful to troubleshoot problems and
      performance issues of the routing protocol.  Two levels of compliance
      allow this MIB module to be deployed on constrained routers.

  "Security Threats for NHDP", Jiazi Yi, Ulrich Herberg, Thomas Clausen,
  2013-06-17, <draft-ietf-manet-nhdp-sec-threats-06.txt>

      This document analyzes common security threats of the Neighborhood
      Discovery Protocol (NHDP), and describes their potential impacts on
      MANET routing protocols using NHDP.  This document is not intended to
      propose solutions to the threats described.

  "Link Metrics for the Mobile Ad Hoc Network (MANET) Routing Protocol
  OLSRv2 - Rationale", Christopher Dearlove, Thomas Clausen, Philippe
  Jacquet, 2013-05-01, <draft-ietf-manet-olsrv2-metrics-rationale-04.txt>

      OLSRv2 includes the ability to assign metrics to links and to use
      those metrics to allow routing by other than minimum hop count
      routes.  This document provides a historic record of the rationale
      for, and design considerations behind, how link metrics were included
      in OLSRv2.

  "Dynamic MANET On-demand (AODVv2) Routing", Charles Perkins, Stan
  Ratliff, John Dowdell, 2013-07-15, <draft-ietf-manet-aodvv2-02.txt>

      The revised Ad Hoc On-demand Distance Vector (AODVv2) routing
      protocol is intended for use by mobile routers in wireless, multihop
      networks.  AODVv2 determines unicast routes among AODVv2 routers
      within the network in an on-demand fashion, offering on-demand
      convergence in dynamic topologies.

  "Integrity Check Value and Timestamp TLV Definitions for Mobile Ad Hoc
  Networks (MANETs)", Ulrich Herberg, Thomas Clausen, Christopher
  Dearlove, 2013-09-10, <draft-ietf-manet-rfc6622-bis-05.txt>

      This document revises, extends and replaces RFC 6622.  It describes
      general and flexible TLVs for representing cryptographic Integrity
      Check Values (ICVs) and timestamps, using the generalized Mobile Ad
      Hoc Network (MANET) packet/message format defined in RFC 5444.  It
      defines two Packet TLVs, two Message TLVs, and two Address Block TLVs
      for affixing ICVs and timestamps to a packet, a message, and one or
      more addresses, respectively.

  "Integrity Protection for Control Messages in NHDP and OLSRv2", Ulrich
  Herberg, Christopher Dearlove, Thomas Clausen, 2013-09-10,
  <draft-ietf-manet-nhdp-olsrv2-sec-05.txt>

      This document specifies integrity and replay protection for the MANET
      Neighborhood Discovery Protocol (NHDP) and the Optimized Link State
      Routing Protocol version 2 (OLSRv2).  This protection is achieved by
      using an HMAC-SHA-256 Integrity Check Value (ICV) TLV and a timestamp
      TLV based on POSIX time.
      
      The mechanism in this specification can also be used for other
      protocols that use the generalized packet/message format described in
      RFC 5444.
      
      This document updates RFC 6130 and RFC xxxx by mandating the
      implementation of this integrity and replay protection in NHDP and
      OLSRv2.

  "Routing MPR Optimization for the Optimized Link State Routing Protocol
  version 2 (OLSRv2)", Christopher Dearlove, Thomas Clausen, 2013-09-19,
  <draft-ietf-manet-olsrv2-rmpr-optimization-00.txt>

      This specification updates the Optimized Link State Routing Protocol
      version 2 (OLSRv2) with an optimization to improve the selection of
      routing MPRs.  The optimization retains full interoperability between
      implementations of OLSRv2 with and without this optimization.

  "Optimized Link State Routing Protocol version 2 (OLSRv2) and MANET
  Neighborhood Discovery Protocol (NHDP) Extension TLVs", Christopher
  Dearlove, Thomas Clausen, 2013-09-19,
  <draft-ietf-manet-nhdp-olsrv2-tlv-extension-00.txt>

      This specification describes extensions to definitions of TLVs used
      by the Optimized Link State Routing Protocol version 2 (OLSRv2) and
      the MANET Neighborhood Discovery Protocol (NHDP), to increase their
      abilities to accommodate protocol extensions.  This document updates
      OLSRv2 and RFC6130.

MBONE Deployment (mboned)
-------------------------

  "Automatic Multicast Tunneling", Gregory Bumgardner, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-mboned-auto-multicast-16.txt>

      This document describes Automatic Multicast Tunneling (AMT), a
      protocol for delivering multicast traffic from sources in a
      multicast-enabled network to receivers that lack multicast
      connectivity to the source network.  The protocol uses UDP
      encapsulation and unicast replication to provide this functionality.
      
      The AMT protocol is specifically designed to support rapid deployment
      by requiring minimal changes to existing network infrastructure.

  "Mtrace Version 2: Traceroute Facility for IP Multicast", Hitoshi
  Asaeda, Weesan Lee, 2013-07-08, <draft-ietf-mboned-mtrace-v2-10.txt>

      This document describes the IP multicast traceroute facility, named
      Mtrace version 2 (Mtrace2).  Unlike unicast traceroute, Mtrace2
      requires special implementations on the part of routers.  This
      specification describes the required functionality in multicast
      routers, as well as how an Mtrace2 client invokes a query and
      receives a reply.

  "IPv4-IPv6 Multicast: Problem Statement and Use Cases", Christian
  Jacquenet, Mohamed Boucadair, Yiu Lee, Jacni Qin, Tina Tsou, Qiong,
  2013-09-06, <draft-ietf-mboned-v4v6-mcast-ps-04.txt>

      This document discusses issues and requirements raised by intra-
      domain IPv4-IPv6 multicast interconnection and co-existence
      scenarios.  It also discusses various multicast use cases which may
      occur during IPv6 transitioning.

  "Multicasting Applications Across Inter-Domain Peering Points", Percy
  Tarapore, Robert Sayko, Greg Shepherd, Toerless Eckert, ramki,
  2013-10-21, <draft-tarapore-mboned-multicast-cdni-04.txt>

      This document examines the process of transporting applications via
      multicast across inter-domain peering points. The objective is to
      describe the setup process for multicast-based delivery across
      administrative domains and document supporting functionality to
      enable this process.

  "Address Acquisition For Multicast Content When Source and Receiver
  Support Differing IP Versions", Tina Tsou, Axel Clauberg, Mohamed
  Boucadair, Stig Venaas, Qiong, 2013-07-05,
  <draft-ietf-mboned-multrans-addr-acquisition-02.txt>

      Each IPTV operator has their own arrangements for pre-provisioning
      program information including addresses of the multicast groups
      corresponding to broadcast programs on the subscriber receiver.
      During the transition from IPv4 to IPv6, scenarios can occur where
      the IP version supported by the receiver differs from that supported
      by the source.  This memo examines what has to be done to allow the
      receiver to acquire multicast address information in the version it
      supports in such scenarios.

  "Multicast in the Data Center Overview", Mike McBride, 2013-08-22,
  <draft-ietf-mboned-dc-deploy-01.txt>

      There has been much interest in issues surrounding massive amounts of
      hosts in the data center.  These issues include the prevalent use of
      IP Multicast within the Data Center.  Its important to understand how
      IP Multicast is being deployed in the Data Center to be able to
      understand the surrounding issues with doing so.  This document
      provides a quick survey of uses of multicast in the data center and
      should serve as an aid to further discussion of issues related to
      large amounts of multicast in the data center.

Media Server Control (mediactrl)
--------------------------------

  "Media Control Channel Framework (CFW) Call Flow Examples", Alessandro
  Amirante, Tobia Castaldi, Lorenzo Miniero, Simon Romano, 2013-05-23,
  <draft-ietf-mediactrl-call-flows-13.txt>

      This document provides a list of typical Media Control Channel
      Framework call flows.  It aims at being a simple guide to the use of
      the interface between Application Servers and MEDIACTRL-based Media
      Servers, as well as a base reference documentation for both
      implementors and protocol researchers.

Multiple Interfaces (mif)
-------------------------

  "MIF API consideration", Dapeng Liu, Ted Lemon, Yuri Ismailov, Zhen Cao,
  2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-mif-api-extension-04.txt>

      Hosts may connect to the internet using more than one network API at
      a time, or to a single network on which service is provided by more
      than one provider.  Existing APIs are inadequate to allow
      applications to successfully use the network in this environment.
      This document presents a new abstract API that provides the minimal
      set of messages required to enable an application to communicate
      successfully in this environment.

  "Happy Eyeballs Extension for Multiple Interfaces", Gang Chen, Carl
  Williams, Dan Wing, Andrew Yourtchenko, 2013-08-28,
  <draft-ietf-mif-happy-eyeballs-extension-03.txt>

      Currently the interface selection in multi-interface environment is
      exclusive - only one interface can be used at the time, frequently
      needing manual intervention.  Happy Eyeballs in MIF would make the
      selection process smoother by using the connectivity checks over a
      pre-filtered interfaces according to defined policy.  This would
      choose "best" interface with an automatic fallback.

Managed Incident Lightweight Exchange (mile)
--------------------------------------------

  "IODEF-extension for structured cybersecurity information", Takeshi
  Takahashi, Kent Landfield, Tom Millar, Youki Kadobayashi, 2013-09-29,
  <draft-ietf-mile-sci-09.txt,.pdf>

      This document extends the Incident Object Description Exchange Format
      (IODEF) defined in RFC 5070 [RFC5070] to exchange enriched
      cybersecurity information among cybersecurity entities and facilitate
      their operations.  It provides the capability of embedding structured
      information, such as identifier- and XML-based information.

  "IODEF Usage Guidance", Panos Kampanakis, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-ietf-mile-iodef-guidance-02.txt>

      The Incident Object Description Exchange Format [RFC5070] defines a
      data representation that provides a framework for sharing information
      commonly exchanged by Computer Security Incident Response Teams
      (CSIRTs) about computer security incidents.  Since the IODEF model
      includes a wealth of available options that can be used to describe a
      security incident or issue, it can be challenging for implementers to
      develop tools that can Leverage IODEF for incident sharing.  This
      document provides guidelines for IODEF implementers.  It will also
      address how common security indicators can be represented in IODEF.
      The goal of this document is to make IODEF's adoption by vendors
      easier and encourage faster and wider adoption of the model by
      Computer Security Incident Response Teams (CSIRTs) around the world.

  "The Incident Object Description Exchange Format v2", Roman Danyliw,
  Paul Stoecker, 2013-10-19, <draft-ietf-mile-rfc5070-bis-02.txt>

      The Incident Object Description Exchange Format (IODEF) defines a
      data representation that provides a framework for sharing information
      commonly exchanged by Computer Security Incident Response Teams
      (CSIRTs) about computer security incidents.  This document describes
      the information model for the IODEF and provides an associated data
      model specified with XML Schema.

  "IODEF Enumeration Reference Format", Adam Montville, David Black,
  2013-07-30, <draft-ietf-mile-enum-reference-format-01.txt>

      The Incident Object Description Exchange Format [IODEF] provides a
      Reference class used to reference external entities (such as
      enumeration identifiers).  However, the method of external entity
      identification has been left unstructured.  This document describes a
      method to provide structure for referencing external entities for the
      [IODEF] Reference class.

Mobility for IPv4 (mip4)
------------------------

  "Flow Binding Support for Mobile IPv4", Sri Gundavelli, Kent Leung,
  George Tsirtsis, Hesham Soliman, Alexandru Petrescu, 2013-07-29,
  <draft-ietf-mip4-multiple-tunnel-support-06.txt>

      This specification defines extensions to Mobile IPv4 protocol for
      allowing a mobile node with multiple interfaces to register a care-of
      address for each of its network interfaces and to simultaneously
      establish multiple Mobile IP tunnels with its home agent.  This
      essentially allows the mobile node to utilize all the available
      network interfaces and build an higher aggregated data pipe with the
      home agent for its home address traffic.  Furthermore, these
      extensions also allow the mobile node and the home agent to negotiate
      flow policies for binding individual traffic flows with the
      registered care-of addresses.

Multiparty Multimedia Session Control (mmusic)
----------------------------------------------

  "Real Time Streaming Protocol 2.0 (RTSP)", Henning Schulzrinne, Anup
  Rao, Rob Lanphier, Magnus Westerlund, Martin Stiemerling, 2013-10-10,
  <draft-ietf-mmusic-rfc2326bis-38.txt>

      This memorandum defines RTSP version 2.0 which obsoletes RTSP version
      1.0 defined in RFC 2326.
      
      The Real Time Streaming Protocol, or RTSP, is an application-level
      protocol for setup and control of the delivery of data with real-time
      properties.  RTSP provides an extensible framework to enable
      controlled, on-demand delivery of real-time data, such as audio and
      video.  Sources of data can include both live data feeds and stored
      clips.  This protocol is intended to control multiple data delivery
      sessions, provide a means for choosing delivery channels such as UDP,
      multicast UDP and TCP, and provide a means for choosing delivery
      mechanisms based upon RTP (RFC 3550).

  "A Network Address Translator (NAT) Traversal mechanism for media
  controlled by Real-Time Streaming Protocol (RTSP)", Jeff Goldberg,
  Magnus Westerlund, Thomas Zeng, 2013-05-27,
  <draft-ietf-mmusic-rtsp-nat-16.txt>

      This document defines a solution for Network Address Translation
      (NAT) traversal for datagram based media streams setup and controlled
      with Real-time Streaming Protocol version 2 (RTSP 2.0).  It uses
      Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) adapted to use RTSP as a
      signalling channel, defining the necessary extra RTSP extensions and
      procedures.

  "The Evaluation of Different Network Address Translator (NAT) Traversal
  Techniques for Media Controlled by Real-time Streaming Protocol (RTSP)",
  Magnus Westerlund, Thomas Zeng, 2013-05-29,
  <draft-ietf-mmusic-rtsp-nat-evaluation-09.txt>

      This document describes several Network Address Translator (NAT)
      traversal techniques that were considered to be used for establishing
      the RTP media flows controlled by the Real-time Streaming Protocol
      (RTSP).  Each technique includes a description on how it would be
      used, the security implications of using it and any other deployment
      considerations it has.  There are also discussions on how NAT
      traversal techniques relates to firewalls and how each technique can
      be applied in different use cases.  These findings where used when
      selecting the NAT traversal for RTSP 2.0.

  "SDP: Session Description Protocol", Mark Handley, Van Jacobson, Colin
  Perkins, Ali Begen, 2013-09-16, <draft-ietf-mmusic-rfc4566bis-09.txt>

      This memo defines the Session Description Protocol (SDP).  SDP is
      intended for describing multimedia sessions for the purposes of
      session announcement, session invitation, and other forms of
      multimedia session initiation.  This document obsoletes RFC 4566.

  "Analysis of Middlebox Interactions for Signaling Protocol Communication
  along the Media Path", Brian Stucker, Hannes Tschofenig, Gonzalo
  Salgueiro, 2013-05-30, <draft-ietf-mmusic-media-path-middleboxes-07.txt>

      Middleboxes are defined as any intermediary box performing functions
      apart from normal, standard functions of an IP router on the data
      path between a source host and destination host.  Two such functions
      are network address translation and firewalling.
      
      When Application Layer Gateways, such as SIP entities, interact with
      NATs and firewalls, as described in the MIDCOM architecture, then
      problems may occur in the transport of media traffic when signaling
      protocol interaction takes place along the media path, as it is the
      case for recent key exchange proposals (such as DTLS-SRTP).  This
      document highlights problems that may arise.  Unfortunately, it is
      difficult for the end points to detect or predict problematic
      behavior and to determine whether the media path is reliably
      available for packet exchange.
      
      This document aims to summarize the various sources and effects of
      NAT and firewall control, the reasons that they exist, and possible
      means of improving their behavior to allow protocols that rely upon
      signaling along the media path to operate effectively.

  "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Extension For Setting Audio and
  Video Media Streams Over Circuit-Switched Bearers In The Public Switched
  Telephone Network (PSTN)", Miguel Garcia, Simo Veikkolainen, 2013-06-26,
  <draft-ietf-mmusic-sdp-cs-21.txt>

      This memo describes use cases, requirements, and protocol extensions
      for using the Session Description Protocol (SDP) Offer/Answer model
      for establishing audio and video media streams over circuit-switched
      bearers in the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN).

  "Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)-Based Media Transport in
  the Session Description Protocol (SDP)", Salvatore Loreto, Gonzalo
  Camarillo, 2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-mmusic-sctp-sdp-05.txt>

      SCTP (Stream Control Transmission Protocol) is a transport protocol
      used to establish associations between two endpoints.  This document
      describes how to express media transport over SCTP in SDP (Session
      Description Protocol).  This document defines the 'SCTP', 'SCTP/DTLS'
      and 'DTLS/SCTP' protocol identifiers for SDP.

  "The Session Description Protocol (SDP) 'trafficclass' Attribute", James
  Polk, Subha Dhesikan, Paul Jones, 2013-07-14,
  <draft-ietf-mmusic-traffic-class-for-sdp-04.txt>

      This document proposes a new Session Description Protocol (SDP)
      attribute to identify the traffic class a session is requesting
      in its offer/answer exchange.

  "Multiplexing Negotiation Using Session Description Protocol (SDP) Port
  Numbers", Christer Holmberg, Harald Alvestrand, Cullen Jennings,
  2013-10-14, <draft-ietf-mmusic-sdp-bundle-negotiation-05.txt>

      This specification defines a new SDP Grouping Framework extension,
      "BUNDLE", that can be used with the Session Description Protocol
      (SDP) Offer/Answer mechanism to negotiate the usage of bundled media,
      which refers to the usage of a single 5-tuple for media associated
      with multiple SDP media descriptions ("m=" lines).

  "Duplication Grouping Semantics in the Session Description Protocol",
  Ali Begen, Yiqun Cai, Heidi Ou, 2013-07-11,
  <draft-ietf-mmusic-duplication-grouping-03.txt>

      Packet loss is undesirable for real-time multimedia sessions, but can
      occur due to congestion, or other unplanned network outages.  This is
      especially true for IP multicast networks, where packet loss patterns
      can vary greatly between receivers.  One technique that can be used
      to recover from packet loss without incurring unbounded delay for all
      the receivers is to duplicate the packets and send them in separate
      redundant streams.  This document defines the semantics for grouping
      redundant streams in the Session Description Protocol (SDP).  The
      semantics defined in this document are to be used with the SDP
      Grouping Framework.  SSRC-level (Synchronization Source) grouping
      semantics are also defined in this document for RTP streams using
      SSRC multiplexing.

  "Delayed Duplication Attribute in the Session Description Protocol", Ali
  Begen, Yiqun Cai, Heidi Ou, 2013-05-27,
  <draft-ietf-mmusic-delayed-duplication-02.txt>

      A straightforward approach to provide protection against packet
      losses due to network outages with a longest duration of T time units
      is to simply duplicate the original packets and send each copy
      separated in time by at least T time units.  This approach is
      commonly referred to as Time-shifted Redundancy, Temporal Redundancy
      or simply Delayed Duplication.  This document defines an attribute to
      indicate the presence of temporally redundant media streams and the
      duplication delay in the Session Description Protocol.

  "Latching: Hosted NAT Traversal (HNT) for Media in Real-Time
  Communication", Emil Ivov, Hadriel Kaplan, Dan Wing, 2013-10-07,
  <draft-ietf-mmusic-latching-04.txt>

      This document describes behavior of signalling intermediaries in
      Real-Time Communication (RTC) deployments, sometimes referred to as
      Session Border Controllers (SBCs), when performing Hosted NAT
      Traversal (HNT).  HNT is a set of mechanisms, such as media relaying
      and latching, that such intermediaries use to enable other RTC
      devices behind NATs to communicate with each other.
      
      This document is non-normative, and is only written to explain HNT in
      order to provide a reference to the IETF community, as well as an
      informative description to manufacturers, and users.
      
      Latching, which is one of the components of the HNT components, has a
      number of security issues covered here.  Because of those, the IETF
      advises against use of this mechanism over the Internet and
      recommends other solutions such as the Interactive Connectivity
      Establishment (ICE) protocol.

  "Offer/Answer Considerations for G723 Annex A and G729 Annex B", Muthu
  Perumal, Parthasarathi Ravindran, 2013-07-14,
  <draft-ietf-mmusic-sdp-g723-g729-04.txt>

      RFC4856 describes the annexa parameter for G723 and the annexb
      parameter for G729, G729D and G729E. However, the specification does
      not describe the offerer and answerer behavior when the value of the
      annexa or annexb parameter does not match in the Session Description
      protocol(SDP) offer and answer.  This document provides the offer/
      answer considerations for these parameters and updates RFC4856.

  "Cross Session Stream Identification in the Session Description
  Protocol", Harald Alvestrand, 2013-08-13,
  <draft-ietf-mmusic-msid-01.txt>

      This document specifies a grouping mechanism for RTP media streams
      that can be used to specify relations between media streams.
      
      This mechanism is used to signal the association between the SDP
      concept of "m-line" and the WebRTC concept of "MediaStream" /
      "MediaStreamTrack" using SDP signaling.
      
      This document is a work item of the MMUSIC WG, whose discussion list
      is mmusic@ietf.org.

  "Using Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) with Session
  Description Protocol (SDP) offer/answer and Session Initiation Protocol
  (SIP)", Marc Petit-Huguenin, Ari Keranen, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-ietf-mmusic-ice-sip-sdp-00.txt>

      This document describes how Interactive Connectivity Establishment
      (ICE) is used with Session Description Protocol (SDP) offer/answer
      and Session Initiation Protocol (SIP).

  "Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE): A Protocol for Network
  Address Translator (NAT) Traversal for Offer/Answer Protocols", Ari
  Keranen, Jonathan Rosenberg, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-ietf-mmusic-rfc5245bis-00.txt>

      This document describes a protocol for Network Address Translator
      (NAT) traversal for UDP-based multimedia sessions established with
      the offer/answer model.  This protocol is called Interactive
      Connectivity Establishment (ICE).  ICE makes use of the Session
      Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN) protocol and its extension,
      Traversal Using Relay NAT (TURN).  ICE can be used by any protocol
      utilizing the offer/answer model, such as the Session Initiation
      Protocol (SIP).
      
      This document obsoletes RFC 5245.

  "Trickle ICE: Incremental Provisioning of Candidates for the Interactive
  Connectivity Establishment (ICE) Protocol", Emil Ivov, Eric Rescorla,
  Justin Uberti, 2013-10-08, <draft-ietf-mmusic-trickle-ice-00.txt>

      This document describes an extension to the Interactive Connectivity
      Establishment (ICE) protocol that allows ICE agents to send and
      receive candidates incrementally rather than exchanging complete
      lists.  With such incremental provisioning, ICE agents can begin
      connectivity checks while they are still gathering candidates and
      considerably shorten the time necessary for ICE processing to
      complete.
      
      The above mechanism is also referred to as "trickle ICE".

  "UDP Transport Layer (UDPTL) over Datagram Transport Layer Security
  (DTLS)", Christer Holmberg, Ivo Sedlacek, Gonzalo Salgueiro, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-ietf-mmusic-udptl-dtls-00.txt>

      This document specifies how the UDP Transport Layer (UDPTL) protocol
      can be transported over the Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)
      protocol, how the usage of UDPTL over DTLS is indicated in the
      Session Description Protocol (SDP), and how UDPTL over DTLS is
      negotiated in a session established using the Session Initiation
      Protocol (SIP).

Multiprotocol Label Switching (mpls)
------------------------------------

  "A Thesaurus for the Terminology used in Multiprotocol Label Switching
  Transport Profile (MPLS-TP) drafts/RFCs and ITU-T's Transport Network
  Recommendations.", Huub van Helvoort, Loa Andersson, Nurit Sprecher,
  2013-10-20, <draft-ietf-mpls-tp-rosetta-stone-13.txt>

      MPLS Transport Profile (MPLS-TP) is based on a profile of the MPLS
      and Pseudowire (PW) procedures as specified in the MPLS-TE, PW and
      Multi-Segment Pseudowire (MS-PW) architectures developed by the
      Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF).  The International
      Telecommunications Union Telecommunications Standardization Sector
      (ITU-T) has specified a Transport Network architecture.
      
      This document provides a thesaurus for the interpretation of MPLS-TP
      terminology within the context of the ITU-T Transport Network
      Recommendations.
      
      It is important to note that MPLS-TP is applicable in a wider set of
      contexts than just Transport Networks.  The definitions presented in
      this document do not provide exclusive nor complete interpretations
      of MPLS-TP concepts.  This document simply allows the MPLS-TP terms
      to be applied within the Transport Network context.

  "Extensions to RSVP-TE for P2MP LSP Egress Local Protection", Huaimo
  Chen, So Ning, Autumn Liu, Fengman Xu, Mehmet Toy, Lei Liu, 2013-05-27,
  <draft-chen-mpls-p2mp-egress-protection-09.txt>

      This document describes extensions to Resource Reservation Protocol -
      Traffic Engineering (RSVP-TE) for locally protecting egress nodes of
      a Traffic Engineered (TE) point-to-multipoint (P2MP) Label Switched
      Path (LSP) in a Multi-Protocol Label Switching (MPLS) and Generalized
      MPLS (GMPLS) network.

  "Return Path Specified LSP Ping", Mach Chen, Wei Cao, So Ning, Frederic
  JOUNAY, Simon DeLord, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-mpls-return-path-specified-lsp-ping-15.txt>

      This document defines extensions to the data-plane failure-detection
      protocol for Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Switched
      Paths (LSPs) known as "LSP Ping".  These extensions allow selection
      of the LSP to use for the echo reply return path.  Enforcing a
      specific return path can be used to verify bidirectional connectivity
      and also increase LSP ping robustness.

  "Updates to LDP for IPv6", Rajiv Asati, Vishwas Manral, Rajiv Papneja,
  Carlos Pignataro, 2013-07-15, <draft-ietf-mpls-ldp-ipv6-09.txt>

      The Label Distribution Protocol (LDP) specification defines
      procedures to exchange label bindings over either IPv4, or IPv6 or
      both networks. This document corrects and clarifies the LDP behavior
      when IPv6 network is used (with or without IPv4). This document
      updates RFC 5036.

  "Management Information Base for MPLS LDP Multi Topology", Chen Li,
  Lianyuan Li, Lu Huang, Vic Liu, Tao Chou, Quintin Zhao, Emily Chen,
  2013-10-21, <draft-li-mpls-ldp-mt-mib-05.txt>

      This memo defines an portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
      for use with network management protocols in the Internet community.
      In particular, it describes a MIB module for Multi-Topology Networks
      over Multi-protocol Label Switching(MPLS) Label Switching
      Routers(LSRs).

  "Seamless MPLS Architecture", Nicolai Leymann, Bruno Decraene, Clarence
  Filsfils, Maciek Konstantynowicz, Dirk Steinberg, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-ietf-mpls-seamless-mpls-04.txt>

      This documents describes an architecture which can be used to extend
      MPLS networks to integrate access and aggregation networks into a
      single MPLS domain ("Seamless MPLS").  The Seamless MPLS approach is
      based on existing and well known protocols.  It provides a highly
      flexible and a scalable architecture and the possibility to integrate
      100.000 of nodes.  The separation of the service and transport plane
      is one of the key elements; Seamless MPLS provides end to end service
      independent transport.  Therefore it removes the need for service
      specific configurations in network transport nodes (without end to
      end transport MPLS, some additional services nodes/configurations
      would be required to glue each transport domain).  This draft defines
      a routing architecture using existing standardized protocols.  It
      does not invent any new protocols or defines extensions to existing
      protocols.

  "Inter-Area P2MP Segmented LSPs", Yakov Rekhter, Rahul Aggarwal,
  2013-05-14, <draft-ietf-mpls-seamless-mcast-07.txt>

      This document describes procedures for building inter-area point-to-
      multipoint (P2MP) segmented service LSPs by partitioning such LSPs
      into intra-area segments and using BGP as the inter-area routing and
      label distribution protocol. Within each IGP area the intra-area
      segments are either carried over intra-area P2MP LSPs, using P2MP LSP
      hierarchy, or instantiated using ingress replication.  The intra-area
      P2MP LSPs may be signaled using P2MP RSVP-TE or P2MP mLDP. If ingress
      replication is used within an IGP area, then MP2P LDP LSPs or P2P
      RSVP-TE LSPs may be used in the IGP area. The applications/services
      that use such inter-area service LSPs may be BGP MVPN, VPLS
      multicast, or global table multicast over MPLS.

  "MPLS-TP Traffic Engineering (TE) Management Information Base (MIB)",
  Venkatesan Mahalingam, Kannan Sampath, Sam Aldrin, Thomas Nadeau,
  2013-05-08, <draft-ietf-mpls-tp-te-mib-06.txt>

      This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
      for use with network management protocols in the Internet community.
      In particular, it describes managed objects of Tunnels, Identifiers,
      Label Switch Router and Textual conventions for Multiprotocol Label
      Switching (MPLS) based Transport Profile (TP).

  "Disabling IPoMPLS and P2P PW LDP Application's State Advertisement",
  Kamran Raza, Sami Boutros, 2013-06-20,
  <draft-ietf-mpls-ldp-ip-pw-capability-06.txt>

      Currently, no LDP capability is exchanged for LDP applications like
      IP Label Switching and L2VPN P2P PW signaling. When an LDP session
      comes up, an LDP speaker may unnecessarily advertise its local state
      for such LDP applications even when the peer session is established
      for some other applications like mLDP or ICCP. This document defines
      a solution by which an LDP speaker announces to its peer its
      disinterest in such non-negotiated applications. This, in turn,
      disables the advertisement of corresponding application state, which
      would have otherwise be advertised by default, over the established
      LDP session.

  "Definition of Time-to-Live TLV for LSP-Ping Mechanisms", Sami Boutros,
  Siva Sivabalan, George Swallow, Shaleen Saxena, Vishwas Manral, Sam
  Aldrin, 2013-10-17, <draft-ietf-mpls-lsp-ping-ttl-tlv-06.txt>

      LSP-Ping is a widely deployed Operation, Administration, and
      Maintenance (OAM) mechanism in MPLS networks. However, in the present
      form, this mechanism is inadequate to verify connectivity of a
      segment of a Multi-Segment PseudoWire (MS-PW) from any node on the
      path of the MS-PW. This document defines a TLV to address this
      shortcoming.

  "LDP Extensions for Multi Topology Routing", Quintin Zhao, Luyuan Fang,
  Chao Zhou, Lianyuan Li, Kamran Raza, 2013-10-14,
  <draft-ietf-mpls-ldp-multi-topology-09.txt>

      Multi-Topology (MT) routing is supported in IP networks with the use
      of MT aware IGPs.  In order to provide MT routing within
      Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Distribution Protocol
      (LDP) networks new extensions are required.
      
      This document describes the LDP protocol extensions required to
      support MT routing in an MPLS environment.

  "P2MP Based mLDP Node Protection Mechanisms for mLDP LSP", Quintin Zhao,
  Tao Chou, Telus Communications, Emily Chen, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-zhao-mpls-mldp-protections-05.txt>

      This document specifies the procedures and protocol extensions for
      the protection of mLDP nodes within Multi-Protocol Label Switching
      (MPLS) networks using P2MP backup LSPs.

  "Per-Interface MIP Addressing Requirements and Design Considerations",
  Adrian Farrel, Hideki Endo, Rolf Winter, Yoshinori Koike, Manuel Paul,
  2013-08-30, <draft-ietf-mpls-tp-mip-mep-map-09.txt>

      The Framework for Operations, Administration and Maintenance (OAM)
      within the MPLS Transport Profile (MPLS-TP) describes how Maintenance
      Entity Group Intermediate Points (MIPs) may be situated within
      network nodes at the incoming and outgoing interfaces.
      
      This document elaborates on important considerations for internal MIP
      addressing.  More precisely it describes important restrictions for
      any mechanism that specifies a way of forming OAM messages so that
      they can be targeted at MIPs on incoming or MIPs on outgoing
      interfaces and forwarded correctly through the forwarding engine.
      Furthermore, the document includes considerations for node
      implementations where there is no distinction between the incoming
      and outgoing MIP.

  "LDP Downstream-on-Demand in Seamless MPLS", Thomas Beckhaus, Bruno
  Decraene, Kishore Tiruveedhula, Maciek Konstantynowicz, Luca Martini,
  2013-07-13, <draft-ietf-mpls-ldp-dod-09.txt>

      Seamless MPLS design enables a single IP/MPLS network to scale over
      core, metro and access parts of a large packet network infrastructure
      using standardized IP/MPLS protocols.  One of the key goals of
      Seamless MPLS is to meet requirements specific to access, including
      high number of devices, their position in network topology and their
      compute and memory constraints that limit the amount of state access
      devices can hold.This can be achieved with LDP Downstream-on-Demand
      (LDP DoD) label advertisement.  This document describes LDP DoD use
      cases and lists required LDP DoD procedures in the context of
      Seamless MPLS design.
      
      In addition, a new optional TLV type in the LDP Label Request message
      is defined for fast-up convergence.

  "MPLS-TP Next-Hop Ethernet Addressing", Dan Frost, Stewart Bryant,
  Matthew Bocci, 2013-07-26,
  <draft-ietf-mpls-tp-ethernet-addressing-08.txt>

      The Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Transport Profile (MPLS-TP)
      is the set of MPLS protocol functions applicable to the construction
      and operation of packet-switched transport networks.  This document
      presents considerations for link-layer addressing of Ethernet frames
      carrying MPLS-TP packets.

  "MPLS Generic Associated Channel (G-ACh) Advertisement Protocol", Dan
  Frost, Stewart Bryant, Matthew Bocci, 2013-06-07,
  <draft-ietf-mpls-gach-adv-08.txt>

      The MPLS Generic Associated Channel (G-ACh) provides an auxiliary
      logical data channel associated with a Label Switched Path (LSP), a
      pseudowire, or a section (link) over which a variety of protocols may
      flow.  These protocols are commonly used to provide Operations,
      Administration, and Maintenance (OAM) mechanisms associated with the
      primary data channel.  This document specifies simple procedures by
      which an endpoint of an LSP, pseudowire, or section may inform the
      other endpoints of its capabilities and configuration parameters, or
      other application-specific information.  This information may then be
      used by the receiver to validate or adjust its local configuration,
      and by the network operator for diagnostic purposes.

  "Carrying PIM-SM in ASM mode Trees over P2MP mLDP LSPs", Yakov Rekhter,
  Rahul Aggarwal, Nicolai Leymann, Wim Henderickx, Quintin Zhao, Renwei
  Li, 2013-10-02, <draft-rekhter-mpls-pim-sm-over-mldp-07.txt>

      When IP multicast trees created by PIM-SM in Any Source Multicast
      (ASM) mode need to pass through an MPLS domain, it may be desirable
      to map such trees to Point-to-Multipoint Label Switched Paths. This
      document describes how to accomplish this in the case where such
      Point-to-Multipoint Label Switched Paths are established using mLDP.

  "Temporal and hitless path segment monitoring", Alessandro D'Alessandro,
  Manuel Paul, Satoshi Ueno, Yoshinori Koike, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-mpls-tp-temporal-hitless-psm-04.txt>

      The MPLS transport profile (MPLS-TP) is being standardized to enable
      carrier-grade packet transport and complement converged packet
      network deployments. Among the most attractive features of MPLS-TP
      are OAM functions, which enable network operators or service
      providers to provide various maintenance characteristics, such as
      fault location, survivability, performance monitoring, and
      preliminary or in-service measurements.
      
      One of the most important mechanisms which is common for transport
      network operation is fault location. A segment monitoring function of
      a transport path is effective in terms of extension of the
      maintenance work and indispensable particularly when the OAM function
      is effective only between end points. However, the current approach
      defined for MPLS-TP for the segment monitoring (SPME) has some fatal
      drawbacks. This document elaborates on the problem statement for the
      Sub-path Maintenance Elements (SPMEs) which provides monitoring of a
      portion of a set of transport paths (LSPs or MS-PWs). Based on the
      problems, this document specifies new requirements to consider a new
      improved mechanism of hitless transport path segment monitoring.
      
      This document is a product of a joint Internet Engineering Task Force
      (IETF) / International Telecommunications Union Telecommunications
      Standardization Sector (ITU-T) effort to include an MPLS Transport
      Profile within the IETF MPLS and PWE3 architectures to support the
      capabilities and functionalities of a packet transport network.

  "MPLS-TP Operations, Administration, and Management (OAM) Identifiers
  Management Information Base (MIB)", Sam Aldrin, Venkatesan Mahalingam,
  Kannan Sampath, Thomas Nadeau, 2013-06-18,
  <draft-ietf-mpls-tp-oam-id-mib-03.txt>

      This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
      for use with network management protocols in the Internet community.
      In particular, it describes Operations, Administration, and
      Management (OAM) identifiers related managed objects for
      Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) based Transport Profile (TP).

  "LDP Hello Cryptographic Authentication", Lianshu Zheng, Mach Chen,
  Manav Bhatia, 2013-08-28, <draft-ietf-mpls-ldp-hello-crypto-auth-02.txt>

      This document introduces a new optional Cryptographic Authentication
      TLV that LDP can use to secure its Hello messages.  It secures the
      Hello messages against spoofing attacks and some well known attacks
      against the IP header.  This document describes a mechanism to secure
      the LDP Hello messages using National Institute of Standards and
      Technology (NIST) Secure Hash Standard family of algorithms.

  "Using LDP Multipoint Extensions on Targeted LDP Sessions", Maria
  Napierala, Eric Rosen, IJsbrand Wijnands, 2013-09-04,
  <draft-ietf-mpls-targeted-mldp-04.txt>

      Label Distribution Protocol (LDP) can be used to set up Point-to-
      Multipoint (P2MP) and Multipoint-to-Multipoint (MP2MP) Label Switched
      Paths.  However, the specification for the Multipoint Extensions to
      LDP presupposes that the two endpoints of an LDP session are directly
      connected.  The LDP base specification allows for the case where the
      two endpoints of an LDP session are not directly connected; such a
      session is known as a "Targeted LDP" session.  This document provides
      the specification for using the LDP Multipoint Extensions over a
      Targeted LDP session.

  "MPLS-TP 1toN Protection", Eric Osborne, Fei Zhang, Yaacov Weingarten,
  Nurit Sprecher, 2013-08-06, <draft-ietf-mpls-tp-1ton-protection-02.txt>

      There is a requirement for Multiprotocol Label Switching Transport
      Profile(MPLS-TP) to support 1:n linear protection for transport
      paths.  This requirement is further elaborated in RFC6372
      [SurvivFwk].  The basic protocol for linear protection, specified in
      RFC6378 [LinProt], is limited to 1+1 and 1:1 protection.  This
      document extends that protocol to address the additional
      functionality necessary to support scenarios where a single
      protection path is preconfigured to provide protection of multiple
      transport paths between two joint endpoints.
      
      This document is a product of a joint Internet Engineering Task Force
      (IETF) / International Telecommunications Union Telecommunications
      Standardization Sector (ITU-T) effort to include an MPLS Transport
      Profile within the IETF MPLS and PWE3 architectures to support the
      capabilities and functionalities of a packet transport network as
      defined by the ITU-T.

  "Applicability of LDP Label Advertisement Mode", Kamran Raza, Sami
  Boutros, Luca Martini, Nicolai Leymann, 2013-02-14,
  <draft-ietf-mpls-ldp-applicability-label-adv-01.txt>

      An LDP speaker negotiates the label advertisement mode with its LDP
      peer at the time of session establishment. Although different
      applications sharing the same LDP session may need different modes
      of label distribution and advertisement, there is only one type of
      label advertisement mode that is negotiated and used per LDP
      session. This document clarifies the use and the applicability of
      session's negotiated label advertisement mode, and categorizes LDP
      applications into two broad categories of negotiated mode-bound and
      mode-independent applications. The document updates RFC5036 and
      RFC4447 to remove any ambiguity and conflict in the area of using
      correct label advertisement mode for a given application.

  "LDP Extensions for Hub & Spoke Multipoint Label Switched Path", Lizhong
  Jin, Frederic JOUNAY, IJsbrand Wijnands, Nicolai Leymann, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-ietf-mpls-mldp-hsmp-03.txt>

      This draft introduces a hub & spoke multipoint LSP (or HSMP LSP for
      short), which allows traffic both from root to leaf through P2MP LSP
      and also leaf to root along the co-routed reverse path.  That means
      traffic entering the HSMP LSP from application/customer at the root
      node travels downstream to each leaf node, exactly as if it is
      travelling downstream along a P2MP LSP to each leaf node.  Upstream
      traffic entering the HSMP LSP at any leaf node travels upstream along
      the tree to the root, as if it is unicast to the root, and strictly
      follows the downstream path of the tree rather than routing protocol
      based unicast path to the root.

  "Encapsulating MPLS in UDP", KuiKe Building, Nischal Sheth, Lucy Yong,
  Carlos Pignataro, Fan Yongbing, 2013-09-08,
  <draft-ietf-mpls-in-udp-03.txt>

      This document specifies an additional IP-based encapsulation for
      MPLS, referred to as MPLS-in-UDP (User Datagram Protocol), which is
      applicable in some circumstances. This document only describes the
      MPLS-in-UDP encapsulation.

  "A Framework for Point-to-Multipoint MPLS in Transport Networks", Dan
  Frost, Stewart Bryant, Matthew Bocci, Lou Berger, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-ietf-mpls-tp-p2mp-framework-04.txt>

      The Multiprotocol Label Switching Transport Profile is the common set
      of MPLS protocol functions defined to enable the construction and
      operation of packet transport networks.  The MPLS-TP supports both
      point-to-point and point-to-multipoint transport paths.  This
      document defines the elements and functions of the MPLS-TP
      architecture applicable specifically to supporting point-to-
      multipoint transport paths.

  "MPLS Transport Profile Linear Protection MIB", Kingston Selvaraj,
  Venkatesan Mahalingam, Vishwas Manral, Daniel King, Sam Aldrin,
  2013-08-07, <draft-ietf-mpls-tp-linear-protection-mib-01.txt>

      This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
      use with network management protocols.  In particular it defines objects
      for managing MPLS Transport Profile (MPLS-TP) Linear Protection.

  ""MPLS LSP Ping TLVs and sub-TLVs registry"", Loa Andersson, Mach Chen,
  Tom Petch, 2013-05-01,
  <draft-pac-mpls-lsp-ping-tlvs-and-sub-tlvs-registry-02.txt>

      This document addresses issues with the structure, allocation
      policies and clarity in the use of the "TLVs and sub-TLVs" of the
      "Multi-Protocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Switched Paths (LSPs)
      Ping Parameters" in the "Multiprotocol Label Switching Architecture
      (MPLS)" name space.
      
      This document does not change any existing allocations and the new
      structure is backwards compatible with the existing registries.
      
      The policy for the allocation of TLVs is unchanged but future
      allocations of sub-TLVs will come from a single namespace, common to
      all TLVs of LSP Ping Parameters.

  "Use of Multipath with MPLS and MPLS-TP", Curtis Villamizar, 2013-10-09,
  <draft-ietf-mpls-multipath-use-02.txt>

      Many MPLS implementations have supported multipath techniques and
      many MPLS deployments have used multipath techniques, particularly in
      very high bandwidth applications, such as provider IP/MPLS core
      networks.  MPLS-TP has strongly discouraged the use of multipath
      techniques.  Some degradation of MPLS-TP OAM performance cannot be
      avoided when operating over many types of multipath implementations.
      
      Using MPLS Entropy label, MPLS LSPs can be carried over multipath
      links while also providing a fully MPLS-TP compliant server layer for
      MPLS-TP LSPs.  This document describes the means of supporting MPLS
      as a server layer for MPLS-TP.  The use of MPLS-TP LSPs as a server
      layer for MPLS LSPs is also discussed.

  "Relayed Echo Reply mechanism for LSP Ping", Luo Jian, Lizhong Jin,
  Thomas Nadeau, George Swallow, 2013-08-05,
  <draft-ietf-mpls-lsp-ping-relay-reply-01.txt>

      In some inter-AS and inter-area deployment scenarios for LSP Ping and
      Traceroute, a replying LSR may not have the available route to the
      initiator, and the Echo Reply message sent to the initiator would be
      discarded resulting in false negatives or complete failure of
      operation of LSP Ping and Traceroute.  This document describes
      extensions to LSP Ping mechanism to enable the replying LSR to have
      the capability to relay the echo response by a set of routable
      intermediate nodes to the initiator during the traceroute process in
      inter-AS and inter-area scenarios.

  "Requirements for MPLS Shared Mesh Protection", Yaacov Weingarten, Sam
  Aldrin, Ping Pan, Jeong-dong Ryoo, Greg Mirsky, David Allan, Daniel
  King, Tae-sik Cheung, 2013-09-23,
  <draft-ietf-mpls-smp-requirements-01.txt>

      This document presents the basic network objectives for the behavior
      of shared mesh protection (SMP) not based on control-plane support.
      This is an expansion of the basic requirements presented in the MPLS
      Transport Profile Requirements (RFC5654) and MPLS Transport Profile
      Survivability Framework (RFC6372) documents.  This document should be
      used as a basis for the definition of the mechanism that would be
      used to implement SMP for MPLS-TP data paths, in networks that do not
      employ a control plane for their operation.

  "MPLS Forwarding Compliance and Performance Requirements", Curtis
  Villamizar, Kireeti Kompella, Shane Amante, Andrew Malis, Carlos
  Pignataro, 2013-10-11, <draft-ietf-mpls-forwarding-02.txt>

      This document provides guidelines for implementers regarding MPLS
      forwarding and a basis for evaluations of forwarding implementations.
      Guidelines cover many aspects of MPLS forwarding.  Topics are
      highlighted where implementers might otherwise overlook practical
      requirements which are unstated or under emphasized or are optional
      for conformance to RFCs but are often considered mandatory by
      providers.

  "Hub and Spoke Multipoint Label Switched Path Tunnels", Lizhong Jin,
  Frederic JOUNAY, Manav Bhatia, Sriganesh Kini, 2013-06-03,
  <draft-ietf-mpls-rsvp-te-hsmp-lsp-00.txt>

      There are applications that require bi-directional, co-routed and
      guaranteed communication from a root node to several leaf nodes in a
      hub and spoke fashion.  To meet such application requirements in a
      Multi-protocol Label Switching (MPLS) network this draft defines a
      Hub and Spoke Multipoint Traffic Engineered Label Switched Path (HSMP
      TE LSP) with resource reservations for guaranteed communication.
      This draft also defines a protocol to setup such LSPs by re-using and
      extending P2MP RSVP-TE.

  "Allocating and Retiring Special Purpose MPLS Labels", Kireeti Kompella,
  Loa Andersson, Adrian Farrel, 2013-07-08,
  <draft-ietf-mpls-special-purpose-labels-03.txt>

      Some MPLS labels have been allocated for specific purposes.  A block
      of labels (0-15) has been set aside to this end, and are commonly
      called "reserved labels".  They will be called "special purpose
      labels" in this document.  As there are only 16 of these labels,
      caution is needed in the allocation of new special purpose labels,
      yet at the same time allow forward progress when one is called for.
      This memo defines some procedures to follow in the allocation and
      retirement of special purpose labels, as well as a method to extend
      the special purpose label space.  Finally, this memo renames the IANA
      registry for these labels to "Special Purpose MPLS Label Values", and
      creates a new one called the "Extended Special Purpose MPLS Label
      Values" registry.

  "Proxy MPLS Echo Request", George Swallow, Vanson Lim, Sam Aldrin,
  2013-07-05, <draft-ietf-mpls-proxy-lsp-ping-00.txt>

      This document defines a means of remotely initiating Multiprotocol
      Label Switched Protocol Pings on Label Switched Paths.  A proxy ping
      request is sent to any Label Switching Routers along a Label Switched
      Path.  The primary motivations for this facility are first to limit
      the number of messages and related processing when using LSP Ping in
      large Point-to-Multipoint LSPs, and second to enable leaf to leaf/
      root tracing.

  "mLDP In-Band Signaling with Wildcards", IJsbrand Wijnands, Eric Rosen, 
  arkadiy.gulko@thomsonreuters.com, Uwe Joorde, Jeff Tantsura, 2013-10-09,
  <draft-wijnands-mpls-mldp-in-band-wildcard-encoding-01.txt>

      There are scenarios in which an IP multicast tree traverses an MPLS
      domain.  In these scenarios, it can be desirable to convert the IP
      multicast tree "seamlessly" to an MPLS multipoint label switched path
      (MP-LSP) when it enters the MPLS domain, and then to convert it back
      to an IP multicast tree when it exists the MPLS domain.  Previous
      documents specify procedures that allow certain kinds of IP multicast
      trees (either "Source-Specific Multicast" trees or "Bidirectional
      multicast" trees) to be attached to an MPLS multipoint label switched
      path (MP-LSP), either in the context of a particular VPN or in a
      "global" (non-VPN) context.  However, the previous documents do not
      specify procedures for attaching IP "Any Source Multicast" trees to
      MP-LSPs, nor do they specify procedures "aggregating" multiple IP
      multicast trees onto a single MP-LSP.  This document specifies the
      procedures to support these functions.  It does so by defining
      "wildcard" encodings making it possible to specify, when setting up
      an MP-LSP, that a set of IP multicast trees or a shared IP multicast
      tree should be attached to that MP-LSP.

  "Updates to RFC 4379 IANA section", Loa Andersson, 2013-07-16,
  <draft-andersson-mpls-lsp-ping-upd-00.txt>

      The MultiProtocol Label Switching (MPLS) protcol for detecting Label
      Switched Path failures (LSP Ping), as defined in RFC 4379 and several
      extensions, are widely deployed and very popular.
      
      The IANA sectiion of RFC4379 lack in clarity and need to be updated.

  "mLDP Node Protection", IJsbrand Wijnands, Eric Rosen, Kamran Raza, Jeff
  Tantsura, Alia Atlas, Quintin Zhao, 2013-08-06,
  <draft-ietf-mpls-mldp-node-protection-00.txt>

      This document describes procedures to support node protection for
      Point-to-Multipoint and Multipoint-to-Multipoint Label Switched Paths
      (MP LSPs) built by LDP ("Label Distribution Protocol"), or simply
      mLDP.  In order to protect a node N, the Point of Local Repair (PLR)
      LSR of N must learn the Merge Point (MPT) LSR(s) of node N such that
      traffic can be redirected to them in case node N fails.  Redirecting
      the traffic around the failed node N depends on existing P2P LSPs
      originated from the PLR LSR to the MPT LSRs while bypassing LSR node
      N.

  "Moving Generic Associated Channel (G-ACh) IANA registries to a new
  registry", Loa Andersson, Carlos Pignataro, 2013-09-23,
  <draft-ietf-mpls-moving-iana-registries-00.txt>

      RFC 5586 generalized the applicability of the pseudowire Associated
      Channel Header (PW-ACH) into the Generic Associated Channel G-Ach.
      However, registries and allocations of G-ACh parameters had been
      distributed throughout different, sometimes unrelated, registries.
      This document coalesces these into a new "Generic Associated Channel
      (G-ACh)" registry under the "Multiprotocol Label Switching
      Architecture (MPLS)" heading.  This is an update to RFC 5586
      [RFC5586].
      
      This document also updates RFC 6374, RFC 6428, RFC 6378, RFC 6427,
      RFC-ietf-mpls-gach-adv-08, and
      RFC-ietf-mpls-tp-ethernet-addressing-08.

  "Extended Administrative Groups in MPLS-TE", Eric Osborne, 2013-10-15,
  <draft-ietf-mpls-extended-admin-group-00.txt>

      This document provides additional administrative groups (sometimes
      referred to as "link colors") to the IGP extensions for MPLS-TE.

  "Performance-based Path Selection for Explicitly Routed LSPs using TE
  Metric Extensions", Alia Atlas, John Drake, Spencer Giacalone, David
  Ward, Stefano Previdi, Clarence Filsfils, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-ietf-mpls-te-express-path-00.txt>

      In certain networks, it is critical to consider network performance
      criteria when selecting the path for an explicitly routed RSVP-TE
      LSP.  Such performance criteria can include latency, jitter, and loss
      or other indications such as the conformance to link performance
      objectives and non-RSVP TE traffic load.  This specification uses
      network performance data, such as is advertised via the OSPF and ISIS
      TE metric extensions (defined outside the scope of this document) to
      perform such path selections.

  "Updates to PSC", Eric Osborne, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-mpls-psc-updates-00.txt>

      This document contains four updates to the Protection State
      Coordination (PSC) logic defined in RFC6378, "MPLS Transport Profile
      (MPLS-TP) Linear Protection" . Two of the updates correct existing
      behavior.  The third clears up a behavior which was not explained in
      the RFC, and the fourth adds rules around handling capabilities
      mismatches.

Multipath TCP (mptcp)
---------------------

  "TCP Extensions for Multipath Operation with Multiple Addresses", Alan
  Ford, Costin Raiciu, Mark Handley, Olivier Bonaventure, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-mptcp-rfc6824bis-00.txt>

      TCP/IP communication is currently restricted to a single path per
      connection, yet multiple paths often exist between peers.  The
      simultaneous use of these multiple paths for a TCP/IP session would
      improve resource usage within the network and, thus, improve user
      experience through higher throughput and improved resilience to
      network failure.
      
      Multipath TCP provides the ability to simultaneously use multiple
      paths between peers.  This document presents a set of extensions to
      traditional TCP to support multipath operation.  The protocol offers
      the same type of service to applications as TCP (i.e., reliable
      bytestream), and it provides the components necessary to establish
      and use multiple TCP flows across potentially disjoint paths.

Multicast Mobility (multimob)
-----------------------------

  "Mobile Multicast Sender Support in Proxy Mobile IPv6 (PMIPv6) Domains",
  Thomas Schmidt, Shuai Gao, Hong-Ke Zhang, Matthias Waehlisch,
  2013-10-19, <draft-ietf-multimob-pmipv6-source-06.txt>

      Multicast communication can be enabled in Proxy Mobile IPv6 domains
      via the Local Mobility Anchors by deploying MLD proxy functions at
      Mobile Access Gateways, via a direct traffic distribution within an
      ISP's access network, or by selective route optimization schemes.
      This document describes the support of mobile multicast senders in
      Proxy Mobile IPv6 domains for all three scenarios.  Protocol
      optimizations for synchronizing PMIPv6 with PIM, as well as a peering
      function for MLD Proxies are defined.  Mobile sources always remain
      agnostic of multicast mobility operations.

  "PMIPv6 multicast handover optimization by the Subscription Information
  Acquisition through the LMA (SIAL)", Luis Contreras, Carlos Bernardos,
  Ignacio Soto, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-ietf-multimob-handover-optimization-05.txt>

      This document specifies an experimental multicast handover
      optimization mechanism for Proxy Mobile IPv6 to accelerate the
      delivery of multicast traffic to mobile nodes after handovers.  The
      mechanism is based on speeding up the acquisition of mobile nodes'
      multicast context by the mobile access gateways.  To do that,
      extensions to the current Proxy Mobile IPv6 protocol are proposed.
      These extensions are not only applicable to the base solution for
      multicast support in Proxy Mobile IPv6, but they can also be applied
      to other solutions developed to avoid the tunnel convergence problem.
      Furthermore, these extensions are also independent of the role played
      by the mobile access gateway within the multicast network (either
      acting as multicast listener discovery proxy or multicast router).

Network Complexity Research Group (ncrg)
----------------------------------------

  "Network Design Complexity Measurement and Tradeoffs", Alvaro Retana,
  Russ White, 2013-08-30,
  <draft-irtf-ncrg-network-design-complexity-00.txt>

      Network architecture revolves around the concept of fitting the
      design of a network to its purpose; of asking the question, "what
      network will best fit these needs?"  A part of fitting network design
      to requirements is the problem of complexity, an idea often
      informally measured using intuition and subjective experience.  When
      would adding a particular protocol, policy, or configuration be "too
      complex?"  This document suggests a series of continuums along which
      network complexity might be measured.  No suggestions are made on how
      to measure complexity for each of these continuums; this is left for
      future documents.

Network Endpoint Assessment (nea)
---------------------------------

  "PT-EAP: Posture Transport (PT) Protocol For EAP Tunnel Methods", Nancy
  Cam-Winget, Paul Sangster, 2013-03-28, <draft-ietf-nea-pt-eap-09.txt>

      This document specifies PT-EAP, an Extensible Authentication Protocol
      (EAP) based Posture Transport (PT) protocol designed to be used only
      inside a TLS protected EAP tunnel method.  The document also
      describes the intended applicability of PT-EAP.

Network Configuration (netconf)
-------------------------------

  "Using the NETCONF Protocol over Transport Layer Security (TLS)",
  Mohamad Badra, Alan Luchuk, Jrgen Schnwlder, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-netconf-rfc5539bis-04.txt>

      The Network Configuration Protocol (NETCONF) provides mechanisms to
      install, manipulate, and delete the configuration of network devices.
      This document describes how to use the Transport Layer Security (TLS)
      protocol to secure the exchange of NETCONF messages.  This document
      obsoletes RFC 5539.

  "Reverse Secure Shell (Reverse SSH)", Kent Watsen, 2013-06-21,
  <draft-ietf-netconf-reverse-ssh-01.txt>

      This memo presents a technique for a NETCONF server to initiate a SSH
      connection to a NETCONF client.  This is accomplished by the NETCONF
      client listening on IANA-assigned TCP port YYYY and starting the SSH
      client protocol immediately after accepting a TCP connection on it.
      This role-reversal is necessary as the NETCONF server must also be
      the SSH Server, in order for the NETCONF client to open the IANA-
      assigned SSH subsystem "netconf".

Network-Based Mobility Extensions (netext)
------------------------------------------

  "Logical Interface Support for multi-mode IP Hosts", Telemaco Melia, Sri
  Gundavelli, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-ietf-netext-logical-interface-support-08.txt>

      A Logical Interface is a software semantic internal to the host
      operating system.  This semantic is available in all popular
      operating systems and is used in various protocol implementations.
      The Logical Interface support is required on the mobile node
      operating in a Proxy Mobile IPv6 domain, for leveraging various
      network-based mobility management features such as inter-technology
      handoffs, multihoming and flow mobility support.  This document
      explains the operational details of Logical Interface construct and
      the specifics on how the link-layer implementations hide the physical
      interfaces from the IP stack and from the network nodes on the
      attached access networks.  Furthermore, this document identifies the
      applicability of this approach to various link-layer technologies and
      analyzes the issues around it when used in context with various
      mobility management features.

  "Prefix Delegation Support for Proxy Mobile IPv6", Xingyue Zhou, Jouni
  Korhonen, Carl Williams, Sri Gundavelli, Carlos Bernardos, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-netext-pd-pmip-11.txt>

      This specification defines extensions to the Proxy Mobile IPv6
      protocol for allowing a mobile router in a Proxy Mobile IPv6 domain
      to obtain IP prefixes for its attached mobile networks using DHCPv6
      prefix delegation.  Network-based mobility management support is
      provided for those delegated IP prefixes just as it is provided for
      the mobile node's home address.  Even if the mobile router performs a
      handoff and changes its network point of attachment, mobility support
      is ensured for all the delegated IP prefixes and for all the IP nodes
      in the mobile network that use IP address configuration from those
      delegated IP prefixes.

  "Proxy Mobile IPv6 Extensions to Support Flow Mobility", Carlos
  Bernardos, 2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-netext-pmipv6-flowmob-08.txt>

      Proxy Mobile IPv6 allows a mobile node to connect to the same Proxy
      Mobile IPv6 domain through different interfaces.  This document
      describes extensions to the Proxy Mobile IPv6 protocol that are
      required to support network based flow mobility over multiple
      physical interfaces.
      
      The extensions described in this document consist on the operations
      performed by the local mobility anchor and the mobile access gateway
      to manage the prefixes assigned to the different interfaces of the
      mobile node, as well as how the forwarding policies are handled by
      the network to ensure consistent flow mobility management.

  "EAP Attributes for WiFi - EPC Integration", Ravi Valmikam, Rajeev
  Koodli, 2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-netext-wifi-epc-eap-attributes-04.txt>

      With WiFi beginning to establishing itself as a trusted access
      network for service providers, it has become important to provide
      functions commonly available in 3G and 4G networks in WiFi access
      networks.  Such functions include Access Point Name (APN) Selection,
      multiple Packet Data Network (PDN) connections and seamless mobility
      between WiFi and 3G/4G networks.
      
      EAP/AKA (and EAP/AKA') is standardized by 3GPP as the access
      authentication protocol for trusted access networks.  This IETF
      specification is required for mobile devices to access the 3GPP
      Evolved Packet Core (EPC) networks.  This document defines a few new
      EAP attributes and procedures to provide the above-mentioned
      functions in trusted WiFi access networks.

  "Quality of Service Option for Proxy Mobile IPv6", Marco Liebsch,
  Pierrick Seite, Hidetoshi Yokota, Jouni Korhonen, Sri Gundavelli,
  2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-netext-pmip6-qos-04.txt>

      This specification defines a new mobility option that can be used by
      the mobility entities [LMA and MAG] in the Proxy Mobile IPv6 domain
      to exchange Quality of Service parameters associated with a
      subscriber's IP flows.  Using the QoS option, the local mobility
      anchor and the mobile access gateway can exchange available QoS
      attributes and associated values.  This enables QoS policing and
      labeling of packets to enforce QoS differentiation on the path
      between the local mobility anchor and the mobile access gateway.
      Furthermore, making QoS parameters available on the MAG enables
      mapping these parameters to QoS rules that are specific to the access
      technology which operates below the mobile access gateway.  After
      such mapping, QoS rules can be enforced on the access technology
      components, such as an IEEE 802.11e Wireless LAN controller.

  "Update Notifications for Proxy Mobile IPv6", Suresh Krishnan, Sri
  Gundavelli, Marco Liebsch, Hidetoshi Yokota, Jouni Korhonen, 2013-10-08,
  <draft-ietf-netext-update-notifications-12.txt>

      This document specifies protocol enhancements for allowing the local
      mobility anchor in a Proxy Mobile IPv6 domain to asynchronously
      notify the mobile access gateway about changes related to a mobility
      session.  These update notification messages are exchanged using a
      new Mobility Header message type specifically designed for this
      purpose.

  "Separation of Control and User Plane for Proxy Mobile IPv6", Ryuji
  Wakikawa, Charles Perkins, Rajesh Pazhyannur, Sri Gundavelli,
  2013-09-22, <draft-ietf-netext-pmip-cp-up-separation-00.txt>

      This document describes splitting of Control Plane (CP) and User
      Plane (UP) for a Proxy Mobile IPv6 based network infrastructure.
      Existing specifications allow a MAG to perform splitting of its
      control and user plane using Alternate Care of address mobility
      option for IPv6, or Alternate IPv4 Care of Address option for IPv4.
      However, the current specification does not have semantics for
      allowing the LMA to perform such functional split.  To realize this
      requirement, this specification defines a mobility option that
      enables a local mobility anchor to provide an alternate LMA address
      to be used for the bi-directional tunnel between the MAG and LMA.
      With this extension, a local mobility anchor will be able to use an
      IP address for its user plane which is different than what is used
      for the control plane.

NETCONF Data Modeling Language (netmod)
---------------------------------------

  "A YANG Data Model for Interface Management", Martin Bjorklund,
  2013-07-04, <draft-ietf-netmod-interfaces-cfg-12.txt>

      This document defines a YANG data model for the management of network
      interfaces.  It is expected that interface type specific data models
      augment the generic interfaces data model defined in this document.
      The data model includes configuration data, state data and counters
      for the collection of statistics.

  "IANA Interface Type YANG Module", Martin Bjorklund, 2013-07-04,
  <draft-ietf-netmod-iana-if-type-07.txt>

      This document defines the initial version of the iana-if-type YANG
      module.

  "A YANG Data Model for Routing Management", Ladislav Lhotka, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-ietf-netmod-routing-cfg-11.txt>

      This document contains a specification of three YANG modules.
      Together they form the core routing data model which serves as a
      framework for configuring and managing a routing subsystem.  It is
      expected that these modules will be augmented by additional YANG
      modules defining data models for individual routing protocols and
      other related functions.  The core routing data model provides common
      building blocks for such extensions - routing instances, routes,
      routing information bases (RIB), routing protocols and route filters.

  "A YANG Data Model for IP Management", Martin Bjorklund, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-ietf-netmod-ip-cfg-11.txt>

      This document defines a YANG data model for management of IP
      implementations.

  "YANG Data Model for System Management", Andy Bierman, Martin Bjorklund,
  2013-07-04, <draft-ietf-netmod-system-mgmt-08.txt>

      This document defines a YANG data model for the configuration and
      identification of some common system properties within a device
      containing a NETCONF server.  This includes data node definitions for
      system identification, time-of-day management, user management, DNS
      resolver configuration, and some protocol operations for system
      management.

  "A YANG Data Model for SNMP Configuration", Martin Bjorklund, Jrgen
  Schnwlder, 2013-04-25, <draft-ietf-netmod-snmp-cfg-02.txt>

      This document defines a collection of YANG definitions for
      configuring SNMP engines.

  "IANA Address Family Numbers and Subsequent Address Family Identifiers
  YANG Module", Martin Bjorklund, 2013-07-04,
  <draft-ietf-netmod-iana-afn-safi-00.txt>

      This document defines the initial version of the iana-afn-safi YANG
      module.

Network File System Version 4 (nfsv4)
-------------------------------------

  "NSDB Protocol for Federated Filesystems", James Lentini, Daniel Ellard,
  Renu Tewari, Chuck Lever, 2012-12-12,
  <draft-ietf-nfsv4-federated-fs-protocol-15.txt>

      This document describes a filesystem federation protocol that enables
      file access and namespace traversal across collections of
      independently administered fileservers.  The protocol specifies a set
      of interfaces by which fileservers with different administrators can
      form a fileserver federation that provides a namespace composed of
      the filesystems physically hosted on and exported by the constituent
      fileservers.

  "Administration Protocol for Federated Filesystems", James Lentini,
  Daniel Ellard, Renu Tewari, Chuck Lever, 2012-12-12,
  <draft-ietf-nfsv4-federated-fs-admin-15.txt>

      This document describes the administration protocol for a federated
      file system that enables file access and namespace traversal across
      collections of independently administered fileservers.  The protocol
      specifies a set of interfaces by which fileservers with different
      administrators can form a fileserver federation that provides a
      namespace composed of the filesystems physically hosted on and
      exported by the constituent fileservers.

  "Network File System (NFS) Version 4 Protocol", Tom, David Noveck,
  2013-10-19, <draft-ietf-nfsv4-rfc3530bis-28.txt>

      The Network File System (NFS) version 4 is a distributed file system
      protocol which builds on the heritage of NFS protocol version 2, RFC
      1094, and version 3, RFC 1813.  Unlike earlier versions, the NFS
      version 4 protocol supports traditional file access while integrating
      support for file locking and the mount protocol.  In addition,
      support for strong security (and its negotiation), compound
      operations, client caching, and internationalization have been added.
      Of course, attention has been applied to making NFS version 4 operate
      well in an Internet environment.
      
      This document, together with the companion XDR description document,
      RFCNFSv4XDR, obsoletes RFC 3530 as the definition of the NFS version
      4 protocol.

  "Network File System (NFS) Version 4 External Data Representation
  Standard (XDR) Description", Tom, David Noveck, 2013-10-19,
  <draft-ietf-nfsv4-rfc3530bis-dot-x-19.txt>

      The Network File System (NFS) version 4 is a distributed filesystem
      protocol which owes its heritage to NFS protocol version 2, RFC 1094,
      and version 3, RFC 1813.  Unlike earlier versions, the NFS version 4
      protocol supports traditional file access, while integrating support
      for file locking and the mount protocol.  In addition, support for
      strong security (and its negotiation), compound operations, client
      caching, and internationalization have been added.  Of course,
      attention has been applied to making NFS version 4 operate well in an
      Internet environment.
      
      RFC3530bis formally obsoleting RFC 3530.  This document, together
      with RFC3530bis replaces RFC 3530 as the definition of the NFS
      version 4 protocol.

  "NFSv4 Minor Version 2 Protocol External Data Representation Standard
  (XDR) Description", Tom, 2013-08-13,
  <draft-ietf-nfsv4-minorversion2-dot-x-19.txt>

      This Internet-Draft provides the XDR description for NFSv4 minor
      version two.

  "NFS Version 4 Minor Version 2", Tom, 2013-08-13,
  <draft-ietf-nfsv4-minorversion2-20.txt>

      This Internet-Draft describes NFS version 4 minor version two,
      focusing mainly on the protocol extensions made from NFS version 4
      minor version 0 and NFS version 4 minor version 1.  Major extensions
      introduced in NFS version 4 minor version two include: Server-side
      Copy, Application I/O Advise, Space Reservations, Sparse Files,
      Application Data Blocks, and Labeled NFS.

  "Remote Procedure Call (RPC) Security Version 3", Andy Adamson, Nico
  Williams, 2013-10-17, <draft-ietf-nfsv4-rpcsec-gssv3-05.txt>

      This document specifies version 3 of the Remote Procedure Call (RPC)
      security protocol (RPCSEC_GSS).  This protocol provides for compound
      authentication of client hosts and users to server (constructed by
      generic composition), security label assertions for multi-level and
      type enforcement, structured privilege assertions, and channel
      bindings.

  "Object-Based Parallel NFS (pNFS) Operations", Benny Halevy, Boaz
  Harrosh, Brent Welch, 2013-10-04, <draft-ietf-nfsv4-rfc5664bis-02.txt>

      Parallel NFS (pNFS) extends Network File System version 4 (NFSv4) to
      allow clients to directly access file data on the storage used by the
      NFSv4 server.  This ability to bypass the server for data access can
      increase both performance and parallelism, but requires additional
      client functionality for data access, some of which is dependent on
      the class of storage used, a.k.a. the Layout Type.  The main pNFS
      operations and data types in NFSv4 Minor version 1 specify a layout-
      type-independent layer; layout-type-specific information is conveyed
      using opaque data structures whose internal structure is further
      defined by the particular layout type specification.  This document
      specifies the NFSv4.1 Object-Based pNFS Layout Type as a companion to
      the main NFSv4 Minor version 1 specification.  This document has been
      updated since the initial version to clarify and fix some of the
      RAID-related computations so they match current implementations.

  "Requirements for Labeled NFS", Tom, 2013-08-04,
  <draft-ietf-nfsv4-labreqs-04.txt>

      This memo outlines high-level requirements for the integration of
      flexible Mandatory Access Control (MAC) functionality into the
      Network File System (NFS) version 4.2 (NFSv4.2).  It describes the
      level of protections that should be provided over protocol components
      and the basic structure of the proposed system.  The intent here is
      not to present the protocol changes, but to describe the environment
      in which they reside.

  "NFSv4 migration: Implementation experience and spec issues to resolve",
  David Noveck, Piyush Shivam, Chuck Lever, Bill Baker, 2013-09-15,
  <draft-ietf-nfsv4-migration-issues-04.txt>

      The migration feature of NFSv4 provides for moving responsibility for
      a single filesystem from one server to another, without disruption to
      clients.  Recent implementation experience has shown problems in the
      existing specification for this feature.  This document discusses the
      issues which have arisen, explores the options available for curing
      the issues, and explains the choices made in updating the NFSv4.0 and
      NFSv4.1 specifications, to address migration.

  "NFSv4.0 migration: Specification Update", David Noveck, Piyush Shivam,
  Chuck Lever, Bill Baker, 2013-10-12,
  <draft-ietf-nfsv4-rfc3530-migration-update-03.txt>

      The migration feature of NFSv4 allows for responsibility for a single
      filesystem to move from one server to another, without disruption to
      clients.  Recent implementation experience has shown problems in the
      existing specification for this feature in NFSv4.0.  This document
      clarifies and corrects the NFSv4.0 specification (RFC3530 and
      possible successors) to address these problems.

Individual Submissions (none)
-----------------------------

  "An IPv4 Flowlabel Option", Thomas Dreibholz, 2013-07-04,
  <draft-dreibholz-ipv4-flowlabel-18.txt>

      This draft defines an IPv4 option containing a flowlabel that is
      compatible to IPv6.  It is required for simplified usage of IntServ
      and interoperability with IPv6.

  "BGP Persistent Route Oscillation Solutions", Daniel Walton, Alvaro
  Retana, Enke Chen, John Scudder, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-walton-bgp-route-oscillation-stop-08.txt>

      In this document we present two sets of paths for an address prefix
      that can be advertised by a BGP route reflector or confederation ASBR
      to eliminate the MED-induced route oscillations in a network.  The
      first set involves all the available paths, and would achieve the
      same routing consistency as the full IBGP mesh.  The second set,
      which is a subset of the first one, involves the neighbor-AS based
      Group Best Paths, and would be sufficient to eliminate the MED-
      induced route oscillations (subject to certain commonly adopted
      topological constrains).

  "EAP Support in Smartcard", Pascal Urien, Guy Pujolle, 2013-07-12,
  <draft-urien-eap-smartcard-25.txt>

      This document describes the functional interface, based on the
      ISO7816 standard, to EAP methods, fully and securely executed in
      smart cards. This class of tamper resistant device may deliver
      client or server services; it can compute Root Keys from an Extended
      Master Session Key (EMSK).

  "Reliable Server Pooling Applicability for IP Flow Information
  Exchange", Thomas Dreibholz, Lode Coene, Phillip Conrad, 2013-07-04,
  <draft-coene-rserpool-applic-ipfix-16.txt>

      This document describes the applicability of the Reliable Server
      Pooling architecture to the IP Flow Information Exchange using the
      Aggregate Server Access Protocol (ASAP) functionality of RSerPool
      only.  Data exchange in IPFIX between the router and the data
      collector can be provided by a limited retransmission protocol.

  "Prepaid Extensions to Remote Authentication Dial-In User Service
  (RADIUS)", Avi Lior, Parviz Yegani, Kuntal Chowdhury, Hannes Tschofenig,
  Andreas Pashalidis, 2013-02-25,
  <draft-lior-radius-prepaid-extensions-22.txt>

      This document specifies an extension to the Remote Authentication
      Dial-In User Service (RADIUS) protocol that enables service providers
      to charge for prepaid services.  The supported charging models
      supported are volume-based, duration-based, and based on one-time
      events.

  "A NULL MX Resource Record for Domains that Accept No Mail", John
  Levine, Mark Delany, 2013-07-02, <draft-delany-nullmx-01.txt>

      When the 5321.MailFrom domain in an e-mail message has a DNS MX
      Resource Record (RR), it is making an explicit statement that it is
      willing to accept email.  However, when the domain has just a DNS A
      or AAAA RR, there mail clients cannot easily tell whether the domain
      accepts mail, as many hosts on the Internet advertise an A or AAAA RR
      regardless of whether they want to accept email.
      
      The NULL MX RR formalizes the existing mechanism by which a domain
      announces that it accepts no mail.

  "Applicability of Reliable Server Pooling for Real-Time Distributed
  Computing", Thomas Dreibholz, 2013-07-04,
  <draft-dreibholz-rserpool-applic-distcomp-15.txt>

      This document describes the applicability of the Reliable Server
      Pooling architecture to manage real-time distributed computing pools
      and access the resources of such pools.

  "Secure SCTP", Carsten Hohendorf, Esbold Unurkhaan, Thomas Dreibholz,
  2013-07-04, <draft-hohendorf-secure-sctp-16.txt>

      This document explains the reason for the integration of security
      functionality into SCTP, and gives a short description of S-SCTP and
      its services.  S-SCTP is fully compatible with SCTP defined in
      RFC4960, it is designed to integrate cryptographic functions into
      SCTP.

  "Operational Reliability for EDIINT AS2", John Duker, Dale Moberg,
  2013-10-14, <draft-duker-as2-reliability-14.txt>

      One goal of this document is to define approaches to achieve a "once
      and only once" delivery of messages. The EDIINT AS2 protocol [AS2] is
      implemented by a number of software tools on a variety of platforms
      with varying capabilities and with varying network service quality.
      Although the AS2 protocol defines a unique "Message-ID", current
      implementations of AS2 do not provide a standard method to prevent
      the same message (re-transmitted by the initial sender) from reaching
      back-end business applications at the initial receiver.
      
      A second goal is to reduce retransmissions and failures when AS2 is used
      in a synchronous mode for transmitting MDNs.  There can be a large
      latency between receipt of the POSTed entity body and the MDN response
      caused by the operations of decompressing, decrypting, and signature
      checks. Uncoordinated timeout policies and intermediate devices dropping
      connections have interfered with reliable data exchange. The use of an
      HTTP 102(Processing) status code is described to mitigate these
      difficulties. Use of these reliability features is indicated by
      presence of the "AS2-Reliability" value in the EDIINT-Features header.
      
      Intended Status
      
      The intent of this document is to be placed on the RFC track as an
      Informational RFC.
      
      Feedback Instructions:
      NOTE TO RFC EDITOR:  This section should be removed by the RFC editor
      prior to publication.
      
      If you want to provide feedback on this draft, follow these
      guidelines:
      
      -Send feedback via e-mail to the ietf-ediint list for discussion,
      with "AS2 Reliability" in the Subject field. To enter or follow the
      discussion, you need to subscribe to ietf-ediint@imc.org.
      
      -Be specific as to what section you are referring to, preferably
      quoting the portion that needs modification, after which you state
      your comments.
      
      -If you are recommending some text to be replaced with your suggested
      text, again, quote the section to be replaced, and be clear on the
      section in question.

  "Private Header (P-Header) Extensions to the Session Initiation Protocol
  (SIP) for the 3rd-Generation Partnership Project (3GPP)", Keith Drage,
  Christer Holmberg, Roland Jesske, 2013-10-08,
  <draft-drage-sipping-rfc3455bis-09.txt>

      This document describes a set of private Session Initiation Protocol
      (SIP) header fields (P-headers) used by the 3rd-Generation
      Partnership Project (3GPP), along with their applicability, which is
      limited to particular environments.  The P-header fields are for a
      variety of purposes within the networks that the partners use,
      including charging and information about the networks a call
      traverses.

  "The Jabber-ID Header Field", Peter Saint-Andre, 2013-09-23,
  <draft-saintandre-jabberid-11.txt>

      This document defines a header field that enables the author of an
      email or netnews message to include a Jabber ID in the message header
      block for the purpose of associating the author with a particular
      Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP) address.

  "Applicability of Reliable Server Pooling for SCTP-Based Endpoint
  Mobility", Thomas Dreibholz, Jobin Pulinthanath, 2013-07-04,
  <draft-dreibholz-rserpool-applic-mobility-14.txt>

      This document describes a novel mobility concept based on a
      combination of SCTP with Dynamic Address Reconfiguration extension
      and Reliable Server Pooling (RSerPool).

  "Reliable Server Pooling (RSerPool) Bakeoff Scoring", Thomas Dreibholz,
  Michael Tuexen, 2013-07-04, <draft-dreibholz-rserpool-score-13.txt>

      This memo describes some of the scoring to be used in the testing of
      Reliable Server Pooling protocols ASAP and ENRP at upcoming bakeoffs.

  "Using Saratoga with a Bundle Agent as a Convergence Layer for Delay-
  Tolerant Networking", Lloyd Wood, Jim McKim, Wesley Eddy, Will Ivancic,
  Chris Jackson, 2013-10-20, <draft-wood-dtnrg-saratoga-13.txt>

      Saratoga is a simple, lightweight, UDP-based transfer protocol.  This
      describes how to use Saratoga as a Delay-Tolerant Networking (DTN)
      "convergence layer" with the Bundle Protocol and its Bundle Agents,
      building on the Saratoga specification in draft-wood-tsvwg-saratoga.

  "Handle Resolution Option for ASAP", Thomas Dreibholz, 2013-07-04,
  <draft-dreibholz-rserpool-asap-hropt-13.txt>

      This document describes the Handle Resolution option for the ASAP
      protocol.

  "Definition of a Delay Measurement Infrastructure and Delay-Sensitive
  Least-Used Policy for Reliable Server Pooling", Thomas Dreibholz, Xing
  Zhou, 2013-07-04, <draft-dreibholz-rserpool-delay-12.txt>

      This document contains the definition of a delay measurement
      infrastructure and a delay-sensitive Least-Used policy for Reliable
      Server Pooling.

  "The Lightweight Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) Support
  Protocol (LGSP)", Carlo Kopp, Mike Tyson, 2007-12-21,
  <draft-tyson-lgsp-01.txt>

      This document presents the Lightweight GNSS (Global Navigation
      Satellite System) Support Protocol (LGSP).  The Lightweight GNSS
      Support Protocol (LGSP) is being developed in order to provide a
      comprehensive solution which solves the problems inherent in
      traditional radio-based Differential GPS (DGPS) protocols.  LGSP will
      also provide additional support for GNSS user equipment, such as a
      GPS almanac retrieval method, allowing compatible units to perform
      faster almanac acquisition, thus resulting in less time until an
      initial position measurement can be established.  Other supporting
      features include alternative distribution of GPS navigation messages
      and differential correction messages, a hierarchical mirroring
      architecture, redundant backup operation and load balancing
      functions.

  "Saratoga: A Scalable Data Transfer Protocol", Lloyd Wood, Wesley Eddy,
  Charles Smith, Will Ivancic, Chris Jackson, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-wood-tsvwg-saratoga-14.txt>

      This document specifies the Saratoga transfer protocol.  Saratoga was
      originally developed to transfer remote-sensing imagery efficiently
      from a low-Earth-orbiting satellite constellation, but is useful for
      many other scenarios, including ad-hoc peer-to-peer communications,
      delay-tolerant networking, and grid computing.  Saratoga is a simple,
      lightweight, content dissemination protocol that builds on UDP, and
      optionally uses UDP-Lite.  Saratoga is intended for use when moving
      files or streaming data between peers which may have permanent,
      sporadic or intermittent connectivity, and is capable of transferring
      very large amounts of data reliably under adverse conditions.  The
      Saratoga protocol is designed to cope with highly asymmetric link or
      path capacity between peers, and can support fully-unidirectional
      data transfer if required.  Saratoga can also cope with very large
      files for exascale computing.  In scenarios with dedicated links,
      Saratoga focuses on high link utilization to make the most of limited
      connectivity times, while standard congestion control mechanisms can
      be implemented for operation over shared links.  Loss recovery is
      implemented via a simple negative-ack ARQ mechanism.  The protocol
      specified in this document is considered to be appropriate for
      experimental use on private IP networks.

  "Session Initiation Protocol Service Example -- Music on Hold", Dale
  Worley, 2013-10-02, <draft-worley-service-example-14.txt>

      The "music on hold" feature is one of the most desired features of
      telephone systems in the business environment.  "Music on hold" is
      where, when one party to a call has the call "on hold", that party's
      telephone provides an audio stream (often music) to be heard by the
      other party.  Architectural features of SIP make it difficult to
      implement music-on-hold in a way that is fully compliant with the
      standards.  The implementation of music-on-hold described in this
      document is fully effective and standards-compliant, and has a number
      of advantages over the methods previously documented.  In particular,
      it is less likely to produce peculiar user interface effects and more
      likely to work in systems which perform authentication than the
      music-on-hold method described in section 2.3 of RFC 5359.

  "Representation of Uncertainty and Confidence in PIDF-LO", Martin
  Thomson, James Winterbottom, 2013-08-27,
  <draft-thomson-geopriv-uncertainty-08.txt>

      The key concepts of uncertainty and confidence as they pertain to
      location information are defined.  Methods for the manipulation of
      location estimates that include uncertainty information are outlined.

  "The Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) DNS Resource Record", Patrik
  Fltstrm, Olaf Kolkman, 2013-07-05, <draft-faltstrom-uri-08.txt>

      This document defines a new DNS resource record, called the Uniform
      Resource Identifier (URI) RR, for publishing mappings from hostnames
      to URIs.
      
      This document updates RFC 3958 and RFC 3404.

  "PCEP extensions for a BGP/MPLS IP-VPN", Kenji Kumaki, Tomoki Murai,
  PENG JIANG, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-kumaki-murai-pce-pcep-extension-l3vpn-12.txt>

      IP Virtual Private Networks (IP-VPNs) allow Service Providers to
      offer customers connectivity between sites across an IP Backbone.
      These VPNs can be supported using BGP/MPLS and the connections can be
      created by using MPLS Traffic Engineered (TE) Label Switched Paths
      (LSPs). The paths of these LSPs must be computed to provide the
      connectivity between customer sites. Path selection may be dependent
      on a variety of factors including traffic engineering constraints
      and bandwidth requirements.
      
      It is highly desirable for VPN customers to be able to dynamically
      establish their MPLS TE LSPs for interconnectivity between BGP/MPLS
      IP-VPN sites. The Path Computation Element (PCE) can determine the
      optimal paths of TE LSPs within an MPLS network. This document
      defines how to extend the PCEP to support the dynamic creation of
      MPLS TE LSPs between BGP/MPLS IP-VPN sites.

  "Labels for Common Location-Based Services", Andrea Forte, Henning
  Schulzrinne, 2010-01-15,
  <draft-forte-ecrit-service-classification-03.txt>

      This document creates a registry for describing the types of services
      available at a specific location.  The registry is expected to be
      referenced by other protocols that need a common set of service terms
      as protocol constants.  In particular, we define location-based
      service
      as either a point at a specific geographic location (e.g.,
      bus stop) or
      a service covering a specific region (e.g., pizza
      delivery).

  "BGP Extended Community for QoS Marking", Thomas Knoll, 2013-07-10,
  <draft-knoll-idr-qos-attribute-12.txt>

      This document specifies a simple signalling mechanism for inter-
      domain QoS marking using several instances of a new BGP Extended
      Community.  Class based packet marking and forwarding is currently
      performed independently within ASes.  The new QoS marking community
      makes the targeted Per Hop Behaviour within the IP prefix advertising
      AS and the currently applied marking at the interconnection point
      known to all access and transit ASes.  This enables individual
      (re-)marking and possibly forwarding treatment adaptation to the
      original QoS class setup of the respective originating AS.  The
      extended community provides the means to signal QoS markings on
      different layers, which are linked together in QoS Class Sets.  It
      provides inter-domain and cross-layer insight into the QoS class
      mapping of the source AS with minimal signalling traffic.

  "Internet Protocol-based In-Vehicle Emergency Call", Brian Rosen, Hannes
  Tschofenig, Randy, 2013-07-14, <draft-rosen-ecrit-ecall-10.txt>

      This document describes how to re-use the emergency services
      mechanisms specified for the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) to
      accomplishing emergency calling support in vehicles.  Profiling and
      simplifications are possible due to the nature of the functionality
      that is going to be provided in vehicles with the usage of Global
      Positioning System (GPS).

  "BGP Class of Service Interconnection", Thomas Knoll, 2013-05-11,
  <draft-knoll-idr-cos-interconnect-10.txt>

      This document focuses on Class of Service Interconnection at inter-
      domain interconnection points.  It specifies two new transitive
      attributes, which enable adjacent peers to signal Class of Service
      Capabilities and certain Class of Service admission control
      Parameters.  The new "CoS Capability" is deliberately kept simple and
      denotes the general EF, AF Group BE and LE forwarding support across
      the advertising AS.  The second "CoS Parameter Attribute" is of
      variable length and contains a more detailed description of available
      forwarding behaviours using the PHB id Code encoding.  Each PHB id
      Code is associated with rate and size based traffic parameters, which
      will be applied in the ingress AS Border Router for admission control
      purposes to a given forwarding behaviour.

  "RSVP-TE Recovery Extension for data plane initiated reversion, and
  protection timer signaling", Attila Takacs, Francesco Fondelli, Benoit
  Tremblay, Zafar Ali, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-takacs-ccamp-revertive-ps-09.txt>

      RSVP-TE recovery extensions are specified in [RFC4872] and
      [RFC4873].  Currently recovery signaling does not support the
      request for revertive protection and recovery timers values. This
      document extends the PROTECTION Object format allowing sub-TLVs, and
      defines two sub-TLVs to carry wait-to-restore and hold-off
      intervals.

  "PBS NSLP: Network Traffic Authorization", Se Hong, Henning Schulzrinne,
  2013-10-14, <draft-hong-nsis-pbs-nslp-04.txt>

      This document describes the NSIS Signaling Layer protocol (NSLP) for
      network traffic authorization on the Internet, the Permission-Based
      Sending (PBS) NSLP.  This NSLP aims to prevent Denial-of-Service
      (DoS) attacks and other forms of unauthorized traffic.  PBS NSLP is
      based on a hybrid approach: a proactive approach of explicitly
      granting permissions and a reactive approach of monitoring and
      countering attacks.  Signaling installs and maintains the permission
      state of routers for a data flow.  A monitoring mechanism provides a
      second line of defense against attacks.  PBS NSLP uses two security
      mechanisms: message security for protecting the integrity of the
      message on end-to-end traffic and channel security for protecting the
      integrity and confidentiality between adjacent nodes.  To
      authenticate data packets, the PBS NSLP requests a sender to use an
      existing security protocol, the IPsec Authentication Header (AH).

  "Definitions of Textual Conventions (TCs) for Multiprotocol Label
  Switching (MPLS) Management", Vishwas Manral, Tina Tsou, Will Liu,
  Francesco Fondelli, 2013-06-27, <draft-manral-mpls-rfc3811bis-03.txt>

      This memo defines a Management Information Base (MIB) module which
      contains Textual Conventions to represent commonly used Multiprotocol
      Label Switching (MPLS) management information.  The intent is that
      these TEXTUAL CONVENTIONS (TCs) will be imported and used in MPLS
      related MIB modules that would otherwise define their own
      representations.
      
      This document obsoletes RFC3811 as it addresses the need to support
      IPv6 extended TunnelID's by defining a new TC-
      MplsNewExtendedTunnelID which suggests using IPv4 address of the
      ingress or egress LSR for the tunnel for an IPv6 network.  Changes
      from RFC3811 and the effect of the new TC to other related documents
      are summarized in Section 4 and 5, respectively.

  "Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) Network Address
  Translation", Randall Stewart, Michael Tuexen, Irene Ruengeler,
  2013-09-09, <draft-ietf-behave-sctpnat-09.txt>

      Stream Control Transmission Protocol [RFC4960] provides a reliable
      communications channel between two end-hosts in many ways similar to
      TCP [RFC0793].  With the widespread deployment of Network Address
      Translators (NAT), specialized code has been added to NAT for TCP
      that allows multiple hosts to reside behind a NAT and yet use only a
      single globally unique IPv4 address, even when two hosts (behind a
      NAT) choose the same port numbers for their connection.  This
      additional code is sometimes classified as Network Address and Port
      Translation or NAPT.  To date, specialized code for SCTP has NOT yet
      been added to most NATs so that only pure NAT is available.  The end
      result of this is that only one SCTP capable host can be behind a
      NAT.
      
      This document describes an SCTP specific variant of NAT which
      provides similar features of NAPT in the single point and multi-point
      traversal scenario.

  "Healthy Food and Special Dietary Requirements for IETF meetings", Mary
  Barnes, 2013-07-16, <draft-barnes-healthy-food-07.txt>

      This document describes the basic requirements for food for folks
      that attend IETF meetings require special diets, as well as those
      that prefer to eat healthy.  While, the variety of special diets is
      quite broad, the most general categories are described.  There can be
      controversy as to what constitutes healthy eating, but there are some
      common, generally available foods that comprise the basis for healthy
      eating and special diets.  This document provides some
      recommendations to meeting planners, as well as participants, in
      handling these requirements.

  "Extreme Networks' Ethernet Automatic Protection Switching (EAPS),
  Version 1.3", Arnel Lim, Steven Blake, Sunil Shah, 2011-07-05,
  <draft-shah-extreme-rfc3619bis-02.txt>

      This document describes version 1.3 of the Ethernet Automatic
      Protection Switching (EAPS) (TM) technology invented by Extreme
      Networks to increase the availability and robustness of Ethernet
      rings.  An Ethernet ring built using EAPS can have resilience
      comparable to that provided by SONET rings, at lower cost and without
      some of the constraints (e.g. ring size) of SONET.

  "Takeover Suggestion Flag for the ENRP Handle Update Message", Thomas
  Dreibholz, Xing Zhou, 2013-07-04,
  <draft-dreibholz-rserpool-enrp-takeover-10.txt>

      This document describes the Takeover Suggestion Flag for the
      ENRP_HANDLE_UPDATE message of the ENRP protocol.

  "Expressing Confidence in a Location Object", Martin Thomson,
  2013-08-27, <draft-thomson-geopriv-confidence-04.txt>

      A confidence element is described that expresses the estimated
      probability that the associated location information is correct.
      This element conveys information that might otherwise be lost about
      the probability distribution represented by a region of uncertainty.

  "HTTP Live Streaming", Roger Pantos, 2013-10-14,
  <draft-pantos-http-live-streaming-12.txt>

      This document describes a protocol for transferring unbounded streams
      of multimedia data.  It specifies the data format of the files and
      the actions to be taken by the server (sender) and the clients
      (receivers) of the streams.  It describes version 6 of this protocol.

  "The i;codepoint collation", Bjoern Hoehrmann, 2010-09-14,
  <draft-hoehrmann-cp-collation-01.txt>

      This memo describes the "i;codepoint" collation.  Character strings
      are compared based on the Unicode scalar values of the characters.
      The collation supports equality, substring, and ordering operations.

  "The Subnetwork Encapsulation and Adaptation Layer (SEAL)", Fred
  Templin, 2013-10-21, <draft-templin-intarea-seal-65.txt>

      This document specifies a Subnetwork Encapsulation and Adaptation
      Layer (SEAL).  SEAL operates over virtual topologies configured over
      connected IP network routing regions bounded by encapsulating border
      nodes.  These virtual topologies are manifested by tunnels that may
      span multiple IP and/or sub-IP layer forwarding hops, where they may
      incur packet duplication, packet reordering, source address spoofing
      and traversal of links with diverse Maximum Transmission Units
      (MTUs).  SEAL addresses these issues through the encapsulation and
      messaging mechanisms specified in this document.

  "A Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Event Package for Communication
  Diversion Information in support of the Communication Diversion (CDIV)
  Notification (CDIVN) CDIV service", John-Luc Bakker, Ranjit Avasarala,
  2013-07-12, <draft-avasarala-dispatch-comm-div-notification-12.txt>

      3GPP and TISPAN are defining the protocol specification for the
      Communication Diversion (CDIV) service using IP Multimedia (IM) Core
      Network (CN) subsystem (IMS) supplementary service.  As part of CDIV,
      a SIP based event package is used for notifying users about
      diversions (re-directions or forwarding) of requests for
      communication sessions targetting the user.  This document defines
      the SIP event package to support subscription and notification of
      diversions.  The proposed event package is applicable to the CDIV
      supplementary service in IMS and may not be applicable to the general
      internet.

  "Virtual Enterprise Traversal (VET)", Fred Templin, 2013-05-03,
  <draft-templin-intarea-vet-40.txt>

      Enterprise networks connect hosts and routers over various link
      types, and often also connect to the global Internet either directly
      or via a provider network.  Enterprise network nodes require a means
      to automatically provision addresses/prefixes and support
      internetworking operation in a wide variety of use cases including
      Small Office / Home Office (SOHO) networks, Mobile Ad hoc Networks
      (MANETs), ISP networks, multi-organizational corporate networks and
      the interdomain core of the global Internet itself.  This document
      specifies a Virtual Enterprise Traversal (VET) abstraction for
      autoconfiguration and operation of nodes in dynamic enterprise
      networks.

  "LISP Mobile Node", Dino Farinacci, Darrel Lewis, David Meyer, Chris
  White, 2013-08-01, <draft-meyer-lisp-mn-09.txt>

      This document describes how a lightweight version of LISP's ITR/ETR
      functionality can be used to provide seamless mobility to a mobile
      node.  The LISP Mobile Node design described in this document uses
      standard LISP functionality to provide scalable mobility for LISP
      mobile nodes.

  "The Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) P-Private-Network-Indication
  Private-Header (P-Header)", Hans van Elburg, Keith Drage, Mayumi Ohsugi,
  Shida Schubert, Kenjiro Arai, 2013-09-11,
  <draft-vanelburg-dispatch-private-network-ind-03.txt>

      This document specifies the SIP P-Private-Network-Indication P-header
      used by the 3rd-Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).  The
      P-Private-Network-Indication indicates that the message is part of
      the message traffic of a private network, and identifies that private
      network.  A private network indication allows nodes to treat private
      network traffic according to a different set of rules than the set
      applicable to public network traffic.

  "The atypes media feature tag for Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)",
  Mohamed Boucadair, Andrew Allen, 2013-06-11,
  <draft-boucadair-dispatch-ipv6-atypes-01.txt>

      This specification defines a new media feature tag called atypes.
      This new media feature tag indicates the IP address type capabilities
      of the UA (User Agent) and can aid the routing process and ease the
      invocation of required functions when heterogeneous (i.e., IPv4 and
      IPv6) parties are involved in a given SIP session.
      
      This specification solves a problem raised in 3GPP TS 24.229
      [TS.24229].

  "PIM-SM DR Priority Auto-Adjustment", Xiaohu Xu, Temple Steps, Rajiv
  Asati, SEZ Unit, 2013-06-03,
  <draft-xu-pim-drpriority-auto-adjustment-04.txt>

      This document defines some mechanisms for automatically adjusting the
      Protocol Independent Multicast (PIM) Designed Router (DR) priority
      according to the status of the tracked interface. This approach can
      be used to realize DR auto-switchover in case the DR loses the route
      to multicast source or Rendezvous Point (RP).

  "dIVI: Dual-Stateless IPv4/IPv6 Translation", Congxiao Bao, Xing Li, Yu
  Zhai, Wentao Shang, 2013-06-18, <draft-xli-behave-divi-05.txt>

      This document presents the concepts and the implementations of
      address-sharing dual-stateless IPv4/IPv6 translation (dIVI).
      
      The dIVI is an extension of 1:1 stateless IPv4/IPv6 translation with
      features of IPv4 address sharing and dual translation.  The major
      benefits of those extensions are using public IPv4 addresses more
      effectively and removing the requirements of DNS64 and ALG, without
      loosing the stateless, end-to-end address transparency and
      bidirectional-initiated communications.

  "DNS46 for the IPv4/IPv6 Stateless Translator", Xing Li, Congxiao Bao,
  2013-07-11, <draft-xli-behave-dns46-for-stateless-04.txt>

      The stateless translator can support IPv6-initiated communications as
      well as IPv4-initiated communications for IPv6 hosts using IPv4-
      translatable addresses.  DNS support for the IPv6-initiated
      communication is defined in the DNS64 specification.  This document
      defines the DNS46 function for the stateless translator.

  "A Uniform Resource Name (URN) Namespace for Sources of Law (LEX)",
  PierLuigi Spinosa, Enrico Francesconi, Caterina Lupo, 2013-09-17,
  <draft-spinosa-urn-lex-08.txt>

      This document describes a Uniform Resource Name (URN) Namespace
      Identification (NID) convention as prescribed by the World Wide Web
      Consortium (W3C) for identifying, naming, assigning, and managing
      persistent resources in the legal domain.

  "AS2 Restart for Very Large Messages", Terry Harding, 2013-06-12,
  <draft-harding-as2-restart-05.txt>

      AS2 Restart provides a method for AS2 clients and servers to restart
      payload transfers from the point of failure without requiring the
      entire document to be resent.
      
      Keywords

  "Mesh Structured Hierarchical Networking and IPv6", Shyam Bandyopadhyay,
  2013-05-19, <draft-shyam-mshn-ipv6-15.txt>

      This document tries to address an approach for reorganization of
      entire network in a large address space. It describes how a three-
      tier mesh structured hierarchy can be established based on
      fragmenting the entire space into some regions and sub regions inside
      each of them. It addresses issues which could be relevant to this
      architecture in the context of IPv6. This document also tries to come
      out with an approach how IP switch based network can perform as good
      as ATM network for the processing of real time traffic.

  "Delay-Tolerant Networking LTP Convergence Layer (LTPCL) Adapter", Scott
  Burleigh, 2013-04-25, <draft-burleigh-dtnrg-ltpcl-05.txt>

      This document describes the procedures by which the Licklider
      Transmission Protocol (LTP) is used as a "convergence-layer" protocol
      to convey Delay-Tolerant Networking (DTN) "bundles" between DTN
      nodes.

  "rxgk: GSSAPI based security class for RX", Simon Wilkinson, Benjamin
  Kaduk, 2013-10-21, <draft-wilkinson-afs3-rxgk-08.txt>

      rxgk is a security class for the RX RPC protocol.  It uses the GSSAPI
      framework to provide an authentication service that provides
      authentication, confidentiality and integrity protection for the rxgk
      security class.  This document provides a general description of rxgk
      and how to integrate it into generic RX applications.  Application
      specific behaviour will be described, as necessary, in future
      documents.

  "Integrating rxgk with AFS", Simon Wilkinson, Benjamin Kaduk,
  2013-08-16, <draft-wilkinson-afs3-rxgk-afs-03.txt>

      This document describes how the new GSSAPI-based rxgk security class
      for RX is integrated with the AFS application protocol.  It describes
      a number of extensions to the basic rxgk protocol, clarifies a number
      of implementation issues, and provides values for the application-
      specific elements of rxgk.

  "Stateless Automatic IPv4 over IPv6 Encapsulation / Decapsulation
  Technology: Global SA46T Address Format", Naoki Matsuhira, 2013-07-08,
  <draft-matsuhira-sa46t-gaddr-07.txt>

      This document proposes Stateless Automatic IPv4 over IPv6
      Encapsulation / Decapsulation Technology (SA46T) Global Address
      Format.
      
      SA46T can apply to organization's network individually, but if
      coordination between the organizations made, the total number of
      times of encapsulations and decapusulations can be reduced.  That
      coordination is achieved by using same SA46T address format, that is
      Global address.  This document proposes SA46T Global address format.
      
      SA46T is a gateway technology, not protocol.  But SA46T Global
      Address needs IANA assignment, so this document should be categorized
      standard track or experimental.

  "Stateless Automatic IPv4 over IPv6 Encapsulation / Decapsulation
  Technology: Specification", Naoki Matsuhira, 2013-07-08,
  <draft-matsuhira-sa46t-spec-07.txt>

      This document specifies Stateless Automatic IPv4 over IPv6
      Encapsulation / Decapsulation Technology (SA46T) base specification.
      SA46T makes backbone network to IPv6 only.  And also, SA46T can stack
      many IPv4 networks, i.e. the networks using same IPv4 (private)
      addresses, without interdependence.

  "Security Mechanism Names for Media", Peter Dawes, 2013-10-01,
  <draft-dawes-dispatch-mediasec-parameter-07.txt>

      Negotiating the security mechanisms used between a Session Initiation
      Protocol (SIP) user agent and its next-hop SIP entity is described in
      RFC 3329 [4].  This document adds the capability to distinguish
      security mechanisms that apply to the media plane by defining a new
      Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) header field parameter to label
      such security mechanisms.

  "New Properties for iCalendar", Cyrus Daboo, 2013-09-12,
  <draft-daboo-icalendar-extensions-07.txt>

      This document defines a set of new properties for iCalendar data as
      well as extending the use of some existing properties to the entire
      iCalendar object.

  "HIP-based Virtual Private LAN Service (HIPLS)", Tom Henderson, Steven
  Venema, David Mattes, 2013-06-28, <draft-henderson-hip-vpls-06.txt>

      The Host Identity Protocol (HIP) and architecture adds a
      cryptographic name space to name Internet hosts.  This draft
      describes a use case of the HIP architecture, which is to provide a
      HIP-enabled virtual private LAN service (VPLS) over an untrusted
      network.  In this case, HIP is used to secure tunnels between the
      provider edge (PE) equipment.

  "Protocol for Carrying Authentication for Network Access (PANA) with
  IPv4 Unspecified Address", Alper Yegin, Yoshihiro Ohba, Lionel Morand,
  John Kaippallimalil, 2012-02-14,
  <draft-yegin-pana-unspecified-addr-06.txt>

      This document defines how PANA client (PaC) can perform PANA
      authentication prior to configuring an IP address.

  "The PKCS#11 URI Scheme", Jan Pechanec, Darren Moffat, 2013-09-29,
  <draft-pechanec-pkcs11uri-13.txt>

      This memo specifies a PKCS#11 Uniform Resource Identifier (URI)
      Scheme for identifying PKCS#11 objects stored in PKCS#11 tokens, for
      identifying PKCS#11 tokens themselves, or for identifying PKCS#11
      libraries.  The URI is based on how PKCS#11 objects, tokens, and
      libraries are identified in the PKCS#11 Cryptographic Token Interface
      Standard.

  "Extensions to RSVP-TE for LSP Ingress Local Protection", Huaimo Chen,
  Raveendra Torvi, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-chen-mpls-p2mp-ingress-protection-09.txt>

      This document describes extensions to Resource Reservation Protocol -
      Traffic Engineering (RSVP-TE) for locally protecting the ingress node
      of a Traffic Engineered (TE) Label Switched Path (LSP) in a Multi-
      Protocol Label Switching (MPLS) and Generalized MPLS (GMPLS) network.

  "Group Key Management using IKEv2", Sheela Rowles, Aldous Yeung, Paulina
  Tran, Yoav Nir, 2013-04-28, <draft-yeung-g-ikev2-06.txt>

      This document presents a new group key distribution protocol.  The
      protocol is in conformance with MSEC key management architecture it
      contains two components: member registration and group rekeying, both
      downloading group security associations from the Group Controller Key
      Server to a member of the group.  The new protocol is similar to
      IKEv2 in message and payload formats as well as message semantics.

  "Security Consideration Issues for Internet Mail", S Moonesamy,
  2013-07-08, <draft-moonesamy-mail-security-01.txt>

      This memo discusses about security consideration issues for Internet
      Mail.  It should not be considered as a replacement for RFC 3552 or
      the Security Consideration Sections in mail standards.

  "Xon/Xoff State Control for Telnet Com Port Control Option", Grant
  Edwards, 2010-03-23,
  <draft-edwards-telnet-xon-xoff-state-control-00.txt,.pdf>

      This document defines new values for use with the telnet com port
      control option's SET-CONTROL sub-command defined in RFC2217.  These
      new values provide a mechanism for the telnet client to control and
      query the outbound Xon/Xoff flow control state of the telnet server's
      physical serial port.  This capability is exposed in the serial port
      API on some operating systems and is needed by telnet clients that
      implement a port-redirector service which provides applications local
      to the redirector/telnet-client with transparent access to the remote
      serial port on the telnet server.

  "Linear Protection Switching in MPLS-TP", Huub van Helvoort, Jeong-dong
  Ryoo, Zhang Haiyan, Feng Huang, Han Li, Alessandro D'Alessandro,
  2013-05-06, <draft-zulr-mpls-tp-linear-protection-switching-07.txt,.pdf>

      This document specifies a linear protection switching mechanism for
      MPLS-TP.  This mechanism supports 1+1 unidirectional/bidirectional
      protection switching and 1:1 bidirectional protection switching.  It
      is purely supported by MPLS-TP data plane, and can work without any
      control plane.
      
      This document is a product of a joint Internet Engineering Task Force
      (IETF) / International Telecommunications Union Telecommunications
      Standardization Sector (ITU-T) effort to include an MPLS Transport
      Profile within the IETF MPLS and PWE3 architectures to support the
      capabilities and functionalities of a packet transport network as
      defined by the ITU-T.

  "Advanced Groupware Access Protocol", Iulian Radu, 2013-05-08,
  <draft-iulian-advanced-groupware-access-protocol-07.txt>

      The Advanced Groupware Access Protocol, (AGAP) allows a client to
      access and store electronic mail messages, contacts, events, files,
      and configurations on a server.  The electronic mail messages can be
      grouped in folders.  AGAP also provides the capability for an offline
      client to resynchronize with the server.
      
      AGAP does not specify a means of posting electronic mail messages;
      this function is handled by a mail transfer protocol such as SMTP
      [RFC2821] .  It also does not specify a means for exchanging messages
      with contacts that are reported as being online; this function is
      handled by an instant messaging protocol such as XMPP [RFC3921] .
      
      AGAP includes the following operations for electronic mail messages:
      creating, deleting, renaming, moving and coping mail folders;
      checking for new messages; permanently removing messages; moving and
      coping messages between folders; fetching information about a
      message; setting and clearing tags for messages; searching in
      messages; retrieving only a part of a message; marking messages as
      SPAM; deleting attachments from a message.
      
      AGAP includes the following operations to manipulate the contacts:
      creating, deleting, moving, coping, tagging, and searching contacts;
      checking if a contact is online; fetching information about a
      contact.
      
      AGAP includes the following operations related to the use of the
      events: creating, deleting, moving, coping and tagging events in
      calendar; fetching events details; searching for events.
      
      All entries are read and written in format XML encoded UTF-8
      [RFC3629] and each entry is identified by a unique alphanumeric
      identifier.
      
      AGAP is designed to support access only to a single server per
      connection.  It is also designed to balance the volume of text
      exchanged between the server and clients and its readability by
      humans for debugging.

  "Implications of Full-Duplex HTTP", Wenbo Zhu, Mike Jennings,
  2013-05-15, <draft-zhu-http-fullduplex-07.txt>

      Full-duplex HTTP follows the basic HTTP request-response semantics
      but also allows the server to send response body to the client at the
      same time when the client is transmitting request body to the server.
      Requirements for full-duplex HTTP are under-specified in the existing
      HTTP specification [RFC2616], and this memo intends to clarify the
      requirements of full-duplex HTTP on top of the basic HTTP protocol
      semantics.

  "Protocol for Stage Illumination", Marcus Ertl, 2013-05-24,
  <draft-mertl-psi-03.txt>

      This memo describes a protocol that builds upon UDP/IP to transport
      illumination and control data for stage, architectural and other
      illumination requirements.
      
      It may be understood as a spiritual successor of the traditional DMX
      (Digital MultipleX) specification series, removing it's limitations
      and adding flexibility and usability enhancements like auto-discovery
      and metadata, among other useful features.

  "A Mechanism for Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Avalanche Restart
  Overload Control", Charles Shen, Henning Schulzrinne, Arata Koike,
  2013-08-10, <draft-shen-soc-avalanche-restart-overload-06.txt>

      When a large number of clients register with a SIP registrar server
      at approximately the same time, the server may become overloaded.
      Near-simultaneous floods of SIP SUBSCRIBE and PUBLISH requests may
      have similar effects.  Such request avalanches can occur, for
      example, after a power failure and recovery in a metropolitan area.
      This document describes how to avoid such overload situations.  Under
      this mechanism, a server estimates an avalanche restart backoff
      interval during its normal operation and conveys this interval to its
      clients through a new Restart-Timer header in normal response
      messages.  Once an avalanche restart actually occurs, the clients
      perform backoff based on the previously received Restart-Timer header
      value before sending out the first request attempt.  Thus, the
      mechanism spreads all the initial client requests and prevents them
      from overloading the server.

  "Additional Methods for Generating Subject Key Identifiers", Sean
  Turner, Stephen Kent, James Manger, 2013-10-19,
  <draft-turner-additional-methods-4kis-11.txt>

      This document specifies additional example methods for generating Key
      Identifier values for use in the AKI (Authority Key Identifier) and
      SKI (Subject Key Identifier).

  "Miscellaneous additions to CoAP", Carsten Bormann, Klaus Hartke,
  2013-05-22, <draft-bormann-coap-misc-25.txt>

      This short I-D makes a number of partially interrelated proposals how
      to solve certain problems in the CoRE WG's main protocol, the
      Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP).  The current version has
      been resubmitted to keep information about these proposals available;
      the proposals are not all fleshed out at this point in time.

  "Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) Scheme for Digital Video Broadcasting
  (DVB) Programme Resources", Mo McRoberts, Alexander Adolf, 2013-03-26,
  <draft-mcroberts-uri-dvb-10.txt>

      Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes for broadcasting programme
      resources transmitted over MPEG-2 Transport Streams [MPEG-Systems]
      have been devised in their process of creating standards by the
      Digital Video Broadcasting Project (DVB), the Association of Radio
      Industries and Businesses in Japan (ARIB) and the OpenCable
      Application Platform (OCAP) to acquire current and future scheduled
      publications of broadcast media content from multimedia applications
      such as HTTP, MHP [DVB-MHP], OCAP [OCAP1.0] or other XML based
      metadata.
      
      These URI are used to locate the actual digital TV, Radio or other
      multimedia broadcast programme services (i.e., channels or events)
      and also the audio-visual components related to that programme, for
      example an HTTP-based programme guide on the Web or other XML-based
      electronic programme guides in digital broadcast receivers.
      
      This document defines the "dvb" URI scheme for the benefit of the
      Internet community, given its definition as part of the Digital Video
      Broadcasting (DVB) suite of ETSI standards.

  "Load Sharing for the Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)", Paul
  Amer, Martin Becke, Thomas Dreibholz, Nasif Ekiz, Jana, Preethi
  Natarajan, Randall Stewart, Michael Tuexen, 2013-10-07,
  <draft-tuexen-tsvwg-sctp-multipath-07.txt>

      The Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) supports multi-homing
      for providing network fault tolerance.  However, mainly one path is
      used for data transmission.  Only timer-based retransmissions are
      carried over other paths as well.
      
      This document describes how multiple paths can be used simultaneously
      for transmitting user messages.

  "ISIS Protocol Extensions for Boundary Node Discovery (BND)", Dhruv
  Dhody, Udayasree Palle, 2013-08-23,
  <draft-dhody-pce-bn-discovery-isis-07.txt>

      The Path Computation Element (PCE) may be used for computing multi-
      domain (Area or AS) Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) and
      Generalized MPLS (GMPLS) Traffic Engineered (TE) Label Switch Path
      (LSP).
      
      In this circumstance, it is highly desirable to be able to
      dynamically and automatically discover a set of Boundary Nodes (BN)
      along with their domain information in a simple way.  For that
      purpose, this document defines extensions to the Intermediate System
      to Intermediate System(IS-IS) routing protocol for the advertisement
      of Boundary Node (BN)Discovery information within an IS-IS area or
      within the entire IS-IS routing domain.

  "Virtual Subnet: A L3VPN-based Subnet Extension Solution", KuiKe
  Building, Susan Hares, Fan Yongbing, Christian Jacquenet, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-xu-virtual-subnet-11.txt>

      This document describes a Layer3 Virtual Private Network (L3VPN)-
      based subnet extension solution referred to as Virtual Subnet, which
      can be used as a kind of Layer3 network virtualization overlay
      approach for data center interconnect.

  "OSPF Protocol Extensions for Boundary Node Discovery (BND)", Dhruv
  Dhody, Udayasree Palle, 2013-08-23,
  <draft-dhody-pce-bn-discovery-ospf-07.txt>

      The Path Computation Element (PCE) may be used for computing multi-
      domain (Area or AS) Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) and
      Generalized MPLS (GMPLS) Traffic Engineered (TE) Label Switch Path
      (LSP).
      
      In this circumstance, it is highly desirable to be able to
      dynamically and automatically discover a set of Boundary Nodes (BN)
      along with their domain information in a simple way.  For that
      purpose, this document defines extensions to the Open Shortest Path
      First (OSPF) routing protocol for the advertisement of Boundary Node
      (BN) Discovery information within an OSPF area or within the entire
      OSPF routing domain.

  "GMPLS-based Hierarchy LSP Creation in Multi-Region and Multi-Layer
  Networks", Fatai Zhang, Dan Li, Oscar de Dios, Cyril Margaria,
  2013-07-11, <draft-zhang-ccamp-gmpls-h-lsp-mln-05.txt>

      This specification describes the hierarchical LSP creation models in
      the Multi-Region and Multi-Layer Networks (MRN/MLN), and provides the
      extensions to the existing protocol mechanisms described in [RFC4206],
      [RFC6107] and [RFC6001] to create a hierarchical LSP in multiple
      layer networks.

  "EDNS Option Code for SIP and PSTN Source Reference Info", Hadriel
  Kaplan, Robert Walter, Pierce Gorman, Manjul Maharishi, 2011-10-24,
  <draft-kaplan-dnsext-enum-sip-source-ref-opt-code-03.txt>

      This document requests an IANA allocation for an EDNS0 Option-Code,
      per [RFC2671], for a UTF-8 encoded string field containing a URI for
      private use.  The intended use of this field is for providing SIP
      and PSTN-type source information for ENUM-resolution DNS queries, in
      private DNS server environments such as Private ENUM.

  "Multi-path Label Switched Paths Signaled Using RSVP-TE", Kireeti
  Kompella, Mike Hellers, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-kompella-mpls-rsvp-ecmp-04.txt>

      This document describes extensions to Resource ReSerVation Protocol -
      Traffic Engineering for the set up of multi-path Traffic Engineered
      Label Switched Paths (LSPs) in Multi Protocol Label Switching (MPLS)
      and Generalized MPLS networks, i.e., LSPs that conform to traffic
      engineering constraints, but follow multiple independent paths from
      source to destination.

  "Router Advertisements for Routing between Moving Networks", Alexandru
  Petrescu, Christophe Janneteau, Nicolas Demailly, Sofiane Imadali,
  2013-10-17, <draft-petrescu-autoconf-ra-based-routing-04.txt>

      This draft specifies extensions to the ICMPv6 Router Advertisement
      messages and processing.  Traditionally, prefixes contained in RAs
      are used for on-link determination, on-link address auto-
      configuration, but not for path setup towards multi-hop destinations.
      The extensions proposed here still rely on RAs being communicated on
      a single link (not across several IP hops), but upon RA reception the
      prefixes are installed in the routing table; they are thus used for
      forwarding packets further than a single link (multi IP hop).

  "Timezone Service Protocol", Mike Douglass, Cyrus Daboo, 2013-06-26,
  <draft-douglass-timezone-service-08.txt>

      This document defines a timezone service protocol that allows
      reliable, secure and fast delivery of timezone data to client systems
      such as calendaring and scheduling applications or operating systems.

  "Clarification of Proper Use of "@" (at sign) in URI-style Components",
  Robert Simpson, 2010-07-30, <draft-accilent-at-sign-00.txt>

      Defacto standards have evolved that conflict with existing standards,
      specifically RFC 3986.  This document clarifies the use of the "@"
      (at sign) in URIs and partial URI-like addresses.

  "Port Management To Reduce Logging In Large-Scale NATs", Tina Tsou,
  Weibo Li, Tom Taylor, Jing Huang, 2013-07-02,
  <draft-tsou-behave-natx4-log-reduction-04.txt>

      Various IPv6 transition strategies require the introduction of large-
      scale NATs (e.g. AFTR, NAT64) to share the limited supply of IPv4
      addresses available in the network until transition is complete.
      There has recently been debate over how to manage the sharing of
      ports between different subscribers sharing the same IPv4 address.
      One factor in the discussion is the operational requirement to log
      the assignment of transport addresses to subscribers.  It has been
      argued that dynamic assignment of individual ports between
      subscribers requires the generation of an excessive volume of logs.
      This document suggests a way to achieve dynamic port sharing while
      keeping log volumes low.

  "Media Resource Broker (MRB) Location Function (MLF)", Chris Boulton,
  John Dally, 2013-07-30,
  <draft-boulton-mediactrl-mrb-location-function-05.txt>

      The MediaCtrl work group in the IETF has produced a complete
      architecture for controlling media server resources in Internet
      Protocol (IP) based networks.  An important function in the MediaCtrl
      architecture is the Media Resource Broker entity which monitors and
      allocates media resources to requesting applications.  This document
      introduces a Media Resource Broker (MRB) Location Function (MLF)
      which works in partnership with MRB's in large deployments providing
      a light weight scaling and failover mechanism.

  "Hosts with Any Network Connectivity Using "Bump-in-the-API"(BIA)", Ala
  Hamarsheh, 2011-01-19, <draft-hamarsheh-behave-biav2-05.txt>

      This document specifies a mechanism for hosts with any network
      connectivity (IPv4 only, IPv6 only, or dual IPv4/IPv6 
      connectivity) to run applications of any capability 
      (IPv4 only, IPv6 only, or dual IPv4/IPv6) without any 
      modification to those applications. It is a generalisation 
      of a previous experimental protocol called "Bump-in-the-API"
      (BIA) [RFC3338]. New mechanism of BIA allows a changeover between
      the application layer and the IP communication layers from IPv4 
      to IPv6 and vice versa or IPv6 to IPv4 and vice versa, without 
      requiring those applications to be converted in addressing 
      capabilities, effectively shielding the application layer from
      IPv4 or IPv6 connectivity. This is considered by the authors to
      be one of the essential conditions for the transition to IPv6
      in the Internet to be successful.

  "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Digest Authentication Using GSM 2G
  Authentication and Key Agreement (AKA)", Lionel Morand, 2013-10-03,
  <draft-morand-http-digest-2g-aka-04.txt>

      This document specifies a one-time password generation mechanism for
      Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Digest access authentication based
      on Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) authentication and
      key generation functions A3 and A8, also known as GSM AKA or 2G AKA.
      The HTTP Authentication Framework includes two authentication
      schemes: Basic and Digest.  Both schemes employ a shared secret based
      mechanism for access authentication.  The GSM AKA mechanism performs
      user authentication and session key distribution in GSM and Universal
      Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) networks.  GSM AKA is a
      challenge-response based mechanism that uses symmetric cryptography.

  "Default Port for IRC via TLS/SSL", Richard Hartmann, 2012-07-30,
  <draft-hartmann-default-port-for-irc-via-tls-ssl-08.txt>

      This document describes the commonly accepted practice of listening
      on TCP port 6697 for incoming IRC connections encrypted via TLS/SSL.

  "DNSSEC Trust Anchor Publication for the Root Zone", Joe Abley, Jakob
  Schlyter, Guy Bailey, 2013-06-10,
  <draft-jabley-dnssec-trust-anchor-07.txt>

      The root zone of the Domain Name System (DNS) has been
      cryptographically signed using DNS Security Extensions (DNSSEC).
      
      In order to obtain secure answers from the root zone of the DNS using
      DNSSEC, a client must configure a suitable trust anchor.  This
      document describes how such trust anchors are published.

  "Management Information Base (MIB) for the PCE Communications Protocol
  (PCEP) for Path-Key based Confidentiality in Inter-Domain Path
  Computation.", Dhruv Dhody, Udayasree Palle, Quintin Zhao, Daniel King,
  2013-07-04, <draft-dhody-pce-pcep-pathkey-mib-05.txt>

      This memo defines an experimental portion of the Management
      Information Base (MIB) for use with network management protocols in
      the Internet community.  In particular, it describes managed objects
      for modeling of the Path Computation Element communication Protocol
      (PCEP)for communications between a Path Computation Client (PCC)and a
      Path Computation Element (PCE), or between two PCEs when path-key-
      based confidentiality in inter-domain path computation is requested.

  "IPP over HTTPS Transport Binding and 'ipps' URI Scheme", Ira McDonald,
  Michael Sweet, 2013-09-19, <draft-mcdonald-ipps-uri-scheme-08.txt>

      This memo defines the Internet Printing Protocol (IPP) over HTTPS
      transport binding and the corresponding 'ipps' URI scheme, that is
      used to designate the access to the network location of a secure IPP
      print service or a network resource (for example, a print job)
      managed by such a service.
      
      This memo is published by the IETF on behalf of the Internet Printing
      Protocol Working Group of the IEEE-ISTO Printer Working Group.
      
      This memo updates RFC 2910 and RFC 2911.

  "Stateless Automatic IPv4 over IPv6 Tunneling with IPv4 Address
  Sharing", Naoki Matsuhira, 2013-07-08, <draft-matsuhira-sa46t-as-05.txt>

      This document specifies Stateless Automatic IPv4 over IPv6 Tunneling
      with IPv4 Address Sharing (SA46T-AS) base specification.  SA46T-AS is
      basically the same technology with SA46T, however that have IPv4
      address sharing capability.  SA46T-SA is gateway technology, not
      protocol.

  "Requirements for Receiver-Driven Traffic Engineered
  Point-to-Multi-Point (P2MP) MPLS Tree Structures", Christian Jacquenet,
  Quintin Zhao, Telus Communications, Eduard Metz, 2013-07-10,
  <draft-jacquenet-mpls-rd-p2mp-te-requirements-03.txt>

      This document presents a set of requirements for the establishment
      and maintenance of Receiver-Driven Point-to-Multipoint (RD-P2MP) and
      Multipoint-to-Multipoint (RD-MP2MP) Traffic-Engineered (TE)
      Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Switched Paths (LSPs).

  "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCPv4 and DHCPv6) Options for
  Network Management Protocols", Jrgen Schnwlder, Tina Tsou, Cathy
  Zhou, Tom Taylor, 2013-06-05, <draft-schoenw-opsawg-nm-dhc-04.txt>

      This document defines new Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCPv4
      and DHCPv6) options providing lists of IP addresses that can be used
      to locate network management services, specifically for the
      collection of logs and of Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)
      notifications.

  "SCTP Socket API Extensions for Concurrent Multipath Transfer", Thomas
  Dreibholz, Martin Becke, Hakim Adhari, 2013-07-04,
  <draft-dreibholz-tsvwg-sctpsocket-multipath-06.txt>

      This document describes extensions to the SCTP sockets API for
      configuring the CMT-SCTP and CMT/RP-SCTP extensions.

  "Sender Queue Info Option for the SCTP Socket API", Thomas Dreibholz,
  Robin Seggelmann, Martin Becke, 2013-07-04,
  <draft-dreibholz-tsvwg-sctpsocket-sqinfo-06.txt>

      This document describes an extension to the SCTP sockets API for
      querying information about the sender queue.

  "HTTP framework for time-based access to resource states -- Memento",
  Herbert Van de Sompel, Michael Nelson, Robert Sanderson, 2013-10-10,
  <draft-vandesompel-memento-11.txt>

      The HTTP-based Memento framework bridges the present and past Web. It
      facilitates obtaining representations of prior states of a given
      resource by introducing datetime negotiation and TimeMaps.  Datetime
      negotiation is a variation on content negotiation that leverages the
      given resource's URI and a user agent's preferred datetime.  TimeMaps
      are lists that enumerate URIs of resources that encapsulate prior
      states of the given resource.  The framework also facilitates
      recognizing a resource that encapsulates a frozen prior state of
      another resource.

  "Reclassification of RFC 1142 to Historic", Mike Shand, Les Ginsberg,
  2013-07-08, <draft-shand-rfc1142-to-historic-02.txt>

      This memo reclassifies RFC 1142, OSI IS-IS Intra-domain Routing
      Protocol, to Historic status.  This memo also obsoletes RFC 1142.

  "Applicability of Proxy Mobile IPv6 for Service Provider Wi-Fi
  Deployments", Sri Gundavelli, Byju Pularikkal, Rajeev Koodli,
  2013-10-21, <draft-gundavelli-netext-pmipv6-wlan-applicability-06.txt>

      Proxy Mobile IPv6 is a network-based mobility management protocol.
      The protocol is designed for providing mobility management support to
      a mobile node, without requiring its participation in any IP mobility
      related signaling.  The base protocol is defined in an access
      technology independent manner, it identifies the general requirements
      from the link-layer for supporting the protocol operation.  However,
      it does not provide any specific details on how it can be supported
      on a specific access technology.  This specification identifies the
      key considerations for supporting Proxy Mobile IPv6 protocol on the
      widely deployed wireless LAN access architectures, based on IEEE
      802.11 standards.  It explores the current dominant wireless LAN
      deployment models and provides the needed interworking details.

  "Mobile Ad-hoc On-Demand Data Delivery Protocol (MAODDP)", Humayun
  Bakht, 2011-07-28, <draft-bakht-maoddp-01.txt>

      Routing in mobile ad-hoc network is achieved through the mutual
      cooperation of mobile devices that form routes in between two mobile
      nodes.It is one of the challenging issues in mobile ad-hoc network [1].
      The current protocols for an ad-hoc network can generally be categorized
      into two groups i.e. pro-active and re-active[15,16,17,18]. 
      Pro-active
      protocols by continuously evaluating the known and attempting 
      to
      discover new routes. 
      These protocols try to maintain the most up-to-
      date view of the 
      network[2]. This allows them to efficiently forward
      packets as the route 
      is known in advanced [14]. In contrast reactive
      protocols determine the 
      route only when require [3, 5, 6].
      Mobile Ad-
      hoc On Demand Data Delivery protocol (MAODDP) establishes 
      route on
      demand and delivers the data at the same time one after the 
      other
      [22].MAODDP support both unicast and multicast routing. 
      It is designed
      to minimize reaction to topological changes. 
      In order to ensure the
      freshness of route MAODDP uses combination 
      of sequence numbers and
      broadcast ID. MAODDP is loop-free,
      self-starting protocol whic can
      scales to different size of networks. 
      MAODDP offers quick adaptation to
      the dynamic link 
      conditions and determines routes to the destinations
      on demand.

  "Commentary on the Design of the Authenticated-Enveloped-Data Content
  Type", Jim Schaad, 2011-04-06, <draft-schaad-smime-aed-rant-02.txt>

      The Authenticated-Enveloped-Data Content Type allows for the use of
      Authenticated-Enveloped modes with block cipher algorithms.  At the
      time of the original design there was discussion about the relative
      location of the authenticated attributes and the encrypted content in
      the ASN.1 structure.  With the benefits of implementation experience
      I revisit the discussion made at the time and re-evaluate the
      decision made.

  "Ethics Search Protocol (ESP) for Internet Search Engines", Bernhard
  Fastenrath, 2010-12-09, <draft-fastenrath-ethics-search-protocol-00.txt>

      This document contains a specification for imprints, ethical
      policies and social contracts, the annotation of these, as well
      as the annotation of arbitrary content that can be referenced
      by fully qualified URIs, the submission of digitally signed tickets
      concerning imprints, ethical policies, social contracts or
      annotations, and a search interface for internet search engines.

  "Definition of Managed Objects for SAVI Protocol", Changqing An, Jiahai
  Yang, Jianping Wu, Jun Bi, 2013-06-17, <draft-an-savi-mib-05.txt>

      This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
      for use with network management protocols in the Internet community.
      In particular, it defines objects for managing SAVI (Source Address
      Validation Improvements) protocol instance.

  "Cloud SDO Activities Survey and Analysis", Bhumip Khasnabish, JunSheng
  Chu, 2012-12-26, <draft-khasnabish-cloud-sdo-survey-04.txt>

      The objective of this draft is to present a snapshot of industry
      standards activities related to cloud computing, networking and
      services including relevant features and functions.  This document is
      a survey of current activities of cloud standards development
      organizations (SDOs).  At the end of this survey a section on gap
      analysis is also presented.

  "Cloud Industry Workitem Survey Results", Bhumip Khasnabish, JunSheng
  Chu, Meng Yu, 2012-12-26,
  <draft-khasnabish-cloud-industry-workitems-survey-04.txt>

      This document presents a survey of the industry work items related to
      cloud computing, networking and services.  At the end of this survey
      a section on gaps related to work items is presented.

  "Cloud Reference Framework", Bhumip Khasnabish, JunSheng Chu, SuAn Ma,
  So Ning, Paul Unbehagen, Monique Morrow, Masum Hasan, Yuri Demchenko,
  Meng Yu, 2013-07-02, <draft-khasnabish-cloud-reference-framework-05.txt>

      This document presents a cloud reference framework that intends to
      provide a basis for designing interoperable cloud services and their
      integration into existing open Internet and enterprise IT
      infrastructures.
      
      In general, a cloud-based system utilizes virtualized computing /
      communications / storage resources and applications, and allows their
      combined provisioning as complex infrastructure services.  In the
      emerging cloud-based virtualized infrastructures and services are
      provisioned on on-demand basis, and configured for specific customer
      needs or tasks.
      
      The reference framework is based on the survey of the SDOs and WGs
      that are focusing on cloud-based systems and services (Cloud SDO,
      I-D.Khasnabish-cloud-sdo-survey), on-going standardisation activities
      and other research and developments in the cloud computing technology
      area.  Both intra-cloud and inter-cloud reference frameworks are
      presented and the requirements to the general functional layers and
      components are discussed.

  "Encoding the graphemes of the SignWriting Script with the x-ISWA-2010",
  Stephen Slevinski, Valerie Sutton, 2011-01-03,
  <draft-slevinski-iswa-2010-00.txt>

      For concreteness, because the universal character set is not yet
      universal, because an undocumented and unlabeled coded character set
      hampers information interchange, a 12-bit coded character set has
      been created that encodes the graphemes of the SignWriting script as
      described in the open standard of the International SignWriting
      Alphabet 2010.  The x-ISWA-2010 coded character set is defined with
      hexadecimal characters and described with Unicode characters, either
      proposed characters on plane 1 or interchange characters on plane 15.
      
      This memo defines a standard coded character set for the Internet
      community.  It is published for reference, examination,
      implementation, and evaluation.  Distribution of this memo is
      unlimited.

  "RADIUS Extensions for Port Control Protocol (PCP)", Roberta Maglione,
  Dean Cheng, Mohamed Boucadair, 2013-05-23,
  <draft-maglione-pcp-radius-ext-08.txt>

      This document specifies a new Remote Authentication Dial In User
      Service (RADIUS) attribute to carry a Port Control Protocol (PCP)
      Server Names.  This attribute can be configured on a RADIUS server so
      that the information can be conveyed to Network Access Server (NAS)
      via RADIUS protocol, and the co-located Dynamic Host Configuration
      Protocol (DHCP/DHCPv6) server can then populate the information to
      PCP client.

  "Analysis of Port Control Protocol (PCP) Failure Scenarios", Mohamed
  Boucadair, Reinaldo Penno, 2013-05-16,
  <draft-boucadair-pcp-failure-06.txt>

      This document identifies and analyzes several PCP failure scenarios.
      Identifying these failure scenarios is useful to assess the
      efficiency of the protocol and also to decide whether new PCP
      extensions are needed.

  "A Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) INFO package for Private Wire",
  Richard Beauchamp, Finlay Fraser, Chris Boulton, 2013-07-30,
  <draft-beauchamp-private-wire-07.txt>

      Application level data exchanged using the SIP INFO method are
      supported and documented in specifications known as 'INFO Packages'.
      This document defines functionality associated with Session
      Initiation Protocol (SIP) Private Wire functionality and creates an
      'INFO Package' for carrying such application level data.

  "Client Subnet in DNS Requests", Carlo Contavalli, Wilmer van der Gaast,
  Sean Leach, Edward Lewis, 2013-07-05,
  <draft-vandergaast-edns-client-subnet-02.txt>

      This draft defines an EDNS0 extension to carry information about the
      network that originated a DNS query, and the network for which the
      subsequent reply can be cached.

  "Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar", Mike Douglass, 2013-06-05,
  <draft-douglass-calendar-extension-03.txt,.pdf>

      This specification introduces a number of new iCalendar properties
      which are of particular use for event publishers and in social
      networking.

  "Multipath RTP (MPRTP)", Varun Singh, Teemu Karkkainen, Joerg Ott, Saba
  Ahsan, Lars Eggert, 2013-07-14, <draft-singh-avtcore-mprtp-07.txt>

      The Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) is used to deliver real-time
      content and, along with the RTP Control Protocol (RTCP), forms the
      control channel between the sender and receiver.  However, RTP and
      RTCP assume a single delivery path between the sender and receiver
      and make decisions based on the measured characteristics of this
      single path.  Increasingly, endpoints are becoming multi-homed, which
      means that they are connected via multiple Internet paths.  Network
      utilization can be improved when endpoints use multiple parallel
      paths for communication.  The resulting increase in reliability and
      throughput can also enhance the user experience.  This document
      extends the Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) so that a single
      session can take advantage of the availability of multiple paths
      between two endpoints.

  "MPLS-TP Ring Protection Switching (MRPS)", Huub van Helvoort,
  Jeong-dong Ryoo, 2013-10-15,
  <draft-helvoort-mpls-tp-ring-protection-switching-05.txt>

      This document describes a mechanism to address the requirements for
      protection of the Multi-Protocol Label Switching Transport Profile
      (MPLS-TP) Label Switched Paths (LSP) in a ring topology.  The
      mechanism defined herein is designed to support point-to-point as
      well as point-to-multipoint LSPs.
      
      The MPLS-TP section layer OAM is used to monitor the connectivity
      between each two adjacent nodes using the mechanisms defined in the
      [RFC6371].
      
      The Automatic Protection Switching (APS) protocol is used for
      coordination of protection switching actions between the ring nodes.

  "Diverse Path Implementation Report", Jeff Tantsura, Selma Yilmaz, Keyur
  Patel, Satish Mynam, Robert Raszuk, 2013-05-07,
  <draft-mynam-grow-diverse-path-impl-01.txt>

      This document provides an implementation report for Diverse Path as
      defined in RFC6774.  The editor did not verify the accuracy of the
      information provided by respondents or by any alternative means.  The
      respondents are experts with the implementations they reported on,
      and their responses are considered authoritative for the
      implementations for which their responses represent.

  "Guidelines for Adding Congestion Notification to Protocols that
  Encapsulate IP", Bob Briscoe, John Kaippallimalil, Patricia Thaler,
  2013-09-17, <draft-briscoe-tsvwg-ecn-encap-guidelines-03.txt>

      The purpose of this document is to guide the design of congestion
      notification in any lower layer or tunnelling protocol that
      encapsulates IP.  The aim is for explicit congestion signals to
      propagate consistently from lower layer protocols into IP.  Then the
      IP internetwork layer can act as a portability layer to carry
      congestion notification from non-IP-aware congested nodes up to the
      transport layer (L4).  Following these guidelines should assure
      interworking between new lower layer congestion notification
      mechanisms, whether specified by the IETF or other standards bodies.

  "Applicability of Generalized Multiprotocol Label Switching (GMPLS)
  User-Network Interface (UNI)", Fatai Zhang, Oscar de Dios, Adrian
  Farrel, Xian Zhang, Daniele Ceccarelli, 2013-07-09,
  <draft-zhang-ccamp-gmpls-uni-app-04.txt>

      Generalized Multiprotocol Label Switching (GMPLS) defines a set of
      protocols for the creation of Label Switched Paths (LSPs) in various
      switching technologies. The GMPLS User-Network Interface (UNI) was
      developed in RFC4208 in order to be applied to an overlay network
      architectural model.
      
      This document examines a number of GMPLS UNI application scenarios.
      It shows how techniques developed after the GMPLS UNI can be applied
      to automate or enable critical processes for these applications. This
      document also suggests simple extensions that could be made to
      existing technologies to further enable the UNI and points out some
      unresolved issues.

  "Multipath TCP Support for Single-homed End-systems", Rolf Winter,
  Michael Faath, Andreas Ripke, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-wr-mptcp-single-homed-05.txt>

      Multipath TCP relies on the existence of multiple paths at the end-
      systems typically provided through different IP addresses obtained by
      different ISPs.  While this scenario is certainly becoming
      increasingly a reality (e.g.  mobile devices), currently most end-
      systems are single-homed (e.g.  desktop PCs in an enterprise). It
      seems also likely that a lot of network sites will insist on having
      all traffic pass a single network element (e.g.  for security
      reasons) before traffic is split across multiple paths.  This memo
      therefore describes mechanisms to make multiple paths available to
      multipath TCP-capable end-systems that are not available directly at
      the end-systems but somewhere within the network.

  "Flexible Multilevel TRILL (Transparent Interconnection of Lots of
  Links)", Radia Perlman, Donald Eastlake, Anoop Ghanwani, ZTE
  Corporation, 2013-07-04, <draft-perlman-trill-rbridge-multilevel-06.txt>

      Extending TRILL to multiple levels has one challenge that is not
      addressed by the already-existing capability of IS-IS to have
      multiple levels. The issue is with RBridge nicknames. There have been
      two proposed approaches.  One approach, which we refer to as the
      "unique nickname" approach, gives unique nicknames to all the
      RBridges in the multilevel campus, either by having the
      level-1/level-2 border RBridges advertise which nicknames are not
      available for assignment in the area, or by partitioning the 16-bit
      nickname into an "area" field and a "nickname inside the area" field.
      The other approach, which we refer to as the "aggregated nickname"
      approach, involves assigning nicknames to the areas, and allowing
      nicknames to be reused in different areas, by having the border
      RBridges rewrite the nickname fields when entering or leaving an
      area. Each of those approaches has advantages and disadvantages. The
      design in this document allows a choice of approach in each area,
      allowing the simplicity of the unique nickname approach in
      installations in which there is no danger of running out of
      nicknames, and allowing nickname rewriting to be phased into larger
      installations on a per-area basis.

  "The FNV Non-Cryptographic Hash Algorithm", Glenn Fowler, Landon Noll,
  Kiem-Phong Vo, Donald Eastlake, 2013-10-01, <draft-eastlake-fnv-06.txt>

      FNV (Fowler/Noll/Vo) is a fast, non-cryptographic hash algorithm with
      good dispersion. The purpose of this document is to make information
      on FNV and open source code performing FNV conveniently available to
      the Internet community.

  "Reusing the IPv4 Identification Field in Atomic Packets", Bob Briscoe,
  2013-07-15, <draft-briscoe-intarea-ipv4-id-reuse-03.txt>

      This specification takes a new approach to extensibility that is both
      principled and a hack.  It builds on recent moves to formalise the
      increasingly common practice where fragmentation in IPv4 more closely
      matches that of IPv6.  The large majority of IPv4 packets are now
      'atomic', meaning indivisible.  In such packets, the 16 bits of the
      IPv4 Identification (IPv4 ID) field are redundant and could be freed
      up for the Internet community to put to other uses, at least within
      the constraints imposed by their original use for reassembly.  This
      specification defines the process for redefining the semantics of
      these bits.  It uses the previously reserved control flag in the IPv4
      header to indicate that these 16 bits have new semantics.  Great care
      is taken throughout to ease incremental deployment, even in the
      presence of middleboxes that incorrectly discard or normalise packets
      that have the reserved control flag set.

  "A Forward-Search P2P TE LSP Inter-Domain Path Computation", Huaimo
  Chen, Dhruv Dhody, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-chen-pce-forward-search-p2p-path-computation-07.txt>

      This document presents a forward search procedure for computing paths
      for Point-to-Point (P2P) Traffic Engineering (TE) Label Switched
      Paths (LSPs) crossing a number of domains using multiple Path
      Computation Elements (PCEs).  In addition, extensions to the Path
      Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) for supporting the
      forward search procedure are described.

  "Changing DNS Operators for DNSSEC signed Zones", Peter Koch, Marcos
  Sanz, Antoin Verschuren, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-koch-dnsop-dnssec-operator-change-05.txt>

      Changing the DNS delegation for a DNS zone is quite involved if done
      by the books, but most often handled pragmatically in today's
      operational practice at the top level with registries and registrars.
      This document describes a delegation change procedure that maintains
      consistency and validation under DNSSEC.

  "Adaptive VLAN Assignment for Data Center RBridges", Mingui Zhang,
  Dacheng Zhang, 2013-10-14, <draft-zhang-trill-vlan-assign-06.txt>

      If RBridges are casually assigned as Appointed Forwarders for VLANs
      without considering the number of MAC addresses and traffic load of
      these VLANs, it may overload some of the RBridges while leave other
      RBridges lightly loaded, which reduces the scalability of a RBridge
      network and undermines its performance.
      
      A new mechanism is designed in this document to support the adaptive
      VLAN assignment (or Appointed Forwarder selection) based on the
      forwarders' reporting of their usage of MAC tables and available
      bandwidth.

  "Security Considerations in the IP-based Internet of Things", Oscar
  Garcia-Morchon, Sandeep Kumar, Sye Keoh, Rene Hummen, Rene Struik,
  2013-09-11, <draft-garcia-core-security-06.txt>

      A direct interpretation of the Internet of Things concept refers to
      the usage of standard Internet protocols to allow for human-to-thing
      or thing-to-thing communication.  Although the security needs are
      well-recognized, it is still not fully clear how existing IP-based
      security protocols can be applied to this new setting.  This
      Internet-Draft first provides an overview of security architecture,
      its deployment model and general security needs in the context of the
      lifecycle of a thing.  Then, it presents challenges and requirements
      for the successful roll-out of new applications and usage of standard
      IP-based security protocols when applied to get a functional Internet
      of Things.

  "Data Center Mobility based on E-VPN, BGP/MPLS IP VPN, IP Routing and
  NHRP", Rahul Aggarwal, Yakov Rekhter, Wim Henderickx, Ravi Shekhar,
  Luyuan Fang, Ali Sajassi, 2013-06-10,
  <draft-raggarwa-data-center-mobility-05.txt>

      This document describes a set of network-based solutions for seamless
      Virtual Machine mobility in the data center. These solutions provide
      a toolkit which is based on IP routing, E-VPNs, BGP/MPLS IP VPNs, and
      NHRP.

  "A LoST extension to support return of complete and similar location
  info", Roger Marshall, Jeff Martin, Brian Rosen, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-marshall-ecrit-similar-location-02.txt>

      This document introduces a new way to provide returned location
      information in LoST responses that is either of a completed or
      similar form to the original input civic location, based on whether a
      valid or invalid location is returned within the findServiceResponse
      message.  This document defines a new extension to the
      findServiceResponse message within the LoST protocol [RFC5222] that
      enables the LoST protocol to return a completed civic location
      element set for a valid response, and one or more suggested sets of
      civic location information for invalid LoST responses.  These two
      types of civic addresses are referred to as either "complete" or
      "similar" locations, and are included as compilation of ca type xml
      elements within the existing response message structure.

  "On demand IPv4 address provisioning in Dual-Stack PPP deployment
  scenarios", Karsten Fleischhauer, Olaf Bonness, 2013-09-16,
  <draft-fleischhauer-ipv4-addr-saving-05.txt>

      Today the Dual-Stack approach is the most straightforward and the
      most common way for introducing IPv6 into existing systems and
      networks.  However a typical drawback of implementing Dual-Stack is
      that each node will still require at least one IPv4 address.  Hence,
      solely deploying Dual-Stack does not provide a sufficient solution to
      the IPv4 address exhaustion problem.  Assuming a situation where most
      of the IP communication (e.g. always-on, VoIP etc.) can be provided
      via IPv6, the usage of public IPv4 addresses can significantly be
      reduced and the unused public IPv4 addresses can under certain
      circumstances be returned to the public IPv4 address pool of the
      service provider.  New Dual-Stack enabled services can be introduced
      without increasing the public IPv4 address demand, whereas IPv6 will
      be the preferred network layer protocol.  This document describes
      such a solution in a Dual-Stack PPP session network scenario and
      explains the protocol mechanisms which are used.

  "Route Flap Damping Deployment Status Survey", Shishio Tsuchiya, Seiichi
  Kawamura, Randy Bush, Cristel Pelsser, 2012-06-21,
  <draft-shishio-grow-isp-rfd-implement-survey-05.txt>

      BGP Route Flap Damping [RFC2439] is a mechanism that targets route
      stability.  It penalyzes routes that flap with the aim of reducing
      CPU load on the routers.
      
      But it has side-effects.  Thus, in 2006, RIPE recommended not to use
      Route Flap Damping (see [RIPE-378]).
      
      Now, some researchers propose to turn RFD, with less aggressive
      parameters, back on [draft-ymbk-rfd-usable].
      
      This document describes results of a survey conducted among service
      provider on their use of BGP Route Flap Damping.

  "A Forward-Search P2MP TE LSP Inter-Domain Path Computation", Huaimo
  Chen, Dhruv Dhody, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-chen-pce-forward-search-p2mp-path-06.txt>

      This document presents a forward search procedure for computing a
      path for a Point-to-MultiPoint (P2MP) Traffic Engineering (TE) Label
      Switched Path (LSP) crossing a number of domains through using
      multiple Path Computation Elements (PCEs).  In addition, extensions
      to the Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) for
      supporting the forward search procedure are described.

  "Transport of Fast Notification Messages", Wenhu Lu, Sriganesh Kini,
  Andras Csaszar, Gabor Envedi, Jeff Tantsura, 2013-08-19,
  <draft-lu-fn-transport-05.txt>

      This document specifies mechanisms for fast and light-weight
      dissemination of event notifications.  The purpose is to enable
      dataplane dissemination of Fast Notifications (FNs).  The draft
      discusses the design goals, the message container and options for
      delivering the notifications to all routers within a routing area.

  "Layer 2 (L2) LISP Encapsulation Format", Michael Smith, Dinesh Dutt,
  Dino Farinacci, Fabio Maino, 2013-09-06,
  <draft-smith-lisp-layer2-03.txt>

      This memo describes an encapsulation method for carrying Ethernet and
      IEEE 802 media access control (MAC) frames within the Locator/ID
      Separation Protocol (LISP).

  "Bundle Protocol MIB", Zack Sims, Hans Kruse, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-sims-dtnrg-bpmib-03.txt>

      This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
      for use with network management protocols.  In particular it defines
      objects for managing information about a Bundle Node - or simply a
      'Node' within the scope of this document.  More specifically, the
      managed objects for such a Node include: Node-specific information,
      registered Endpoint-Specific information, and generic CLA-Specific
      (Convergence Layer Adapter) information.

  "IP protocol suite extensions to support CONET Information Centric
  Networking", Andrea Detti, Stefano Salsano, Nicola Blefari-Melazzi,
  2013-06-20, <draft-detti-conet-ip-option-05.txt>

      The Information Centric Networking (ICN) paradigm shifts the focus of
      networking from providing connections between hosts to efficiently
      providing content to the users.  The work on ICN has traditionally
      been performed looking at "clean-slate" solutions which aims to
      replace IP with a new paradigm.  On the other hand, in this memo we
      propose an "integration" approach to Information Centric Networking,
      i.e. we extend the IP protocol suite by defining a new IP Protocol
      type (CONET).  Then we propose two ways of carring ICN related
      information in IP packets, one uses a new IP Option (both for IPv4
      and IPv6), the other one only relies on the IP payload.  The ICN
      related information is used by network nodes and end nodes to support
      networking based on content rather than (or better in addition to)
      end-point addresses.

  "A SAVI solution for WLAN", Jun Bi, Jianping Wu, You Wang, Tao Lin,
  2013-08-08, <draft-bi-savi-wlan-04.txt>

      This document describes a source address validation solution for WLAN
      enabling 802.11i or other security mechanisms. This mechanism snoops
      NDP and DHCP to bind IP address with MAC address, and relies on the
      security of MAC address guaranteed by 802.11i or other mechanisms to
      filter IP spoofing packets. It can work in the special situations
      described in the charter of SAVI workgroup, such as multiple MAC
      addresses on one interface. This document describes three different
      deployment scenarios, with solutions for migration of binding entries
      when hosts move from one access point to another.

  "Suite B Profile for Datagram Transport Layer Security / Secure
  Real-time Transport Protocol (DTLS-SRTP)", Michael Peck, Kevin Igoe,
  2013-06-21, <draft-peck-suiteb-dtls-srtp-03.txt>

      The United States government has published guidelines for "NSA Suite
      B Cryptography", which defines cryptographic algorithm policy for
      national security applications.  This document describes the use of
      Suite B cryptography with the Datagram Transport Layer Security
      (DTLS) protocol, the Secure Real-Time Transport Protocol (SRTP), and
      the Secure Real-Time Transport Control Protocol (SRTCP) to provide a
      robust architecture for securing real-time data.

  "Launch Phase Mapping for the Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP)",
  James Gould, Wil Tan, Gavin Brown, 2013-05-17,
  <draft-tan-epp-launchphase-11.txt>

      This document describes an Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP)
      extension mapping for the provisioning and management of domain name
      registrations and applications during the launch of a domain name
      registry.

  "Extensions to Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP)
  for Hierarchical Path Computation Elements (PCE)", Fatai Zhang, Quintin
  Zhao, Oscar de Dios, Ramon Casellas, Daniel King, 2013-07-14,
  <draft-zhang-pce-hierarchy-extensions-04.txt>

      The Hierarchical Path Computation Element (H-PCE) architecture,
      defined in the companion framework document [RFC6805], provides a
      mechanism to allow the optimum sequence of domains to be selected,
      and the optimum end-to-end path to be derived through the use of a
      hierarchical relationship between domains.
      
      This document defines the Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP)
      extensions for the purpose of implementing Hierarchical PCE
      procedures which are described in the aforementioned document. These
      extensions are experimental and published for examination,
      discussion, implementation, and evaluation.

  "Standardised ECC Cipher Suites for TLS", Peter Gutmann, 2013-06-28,
  <draft-gutmann-tls-eccsuites-05.txt>

      This document describes a set of standard ECC cipher suites for TLS
      that simplify the complex selection procedure described in the
      existing ECC RFC, simplifying implementation and easing
      interoperability problems.

  "Transmission of IPv6 Packets over DECT Ultra Low Energy", Peter
  Mariager, Jens Petersen, Zach Shelby, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-mariager-6lowpan-v6over-dect-ule-03.txt,.pdf>

      DECT Ultra Low Energy is a low power air interface technology that is
      defined by the DECT Forum and specified by ETSI.
      
      The DECT air interface technology has been used world-wide in
      communication devices for more than 15 years, primarily carrying
      voice for cordless telephony but has also been deployed for data
      centric services.
      
      The DECT Ultra Low Energy is a recent addition to the DECT interface
      primarily intended for low-bandwidth, low-power applications such as
      sensor devices, smart meters, home automation etc.  As the DECT Ultra
      Low Energy interface inherits many of the capabilities from DECT, it
      benefits from long range, interference free operation, world wide
      reserved frequency band, low silicon prices and maturity.  There is
      an added value in the ability to communicate with IPv6 over DECT ULE
      such as for Internet of Things applications.
      
      This document describes how IPv6 is transported over DECT ULE using
      6LoWPAN techniques.

  "URI Fragment Identifiers for the text/csv Media Type", Michael
  Hausenblas, Erik Wilde, Jeni Tennison, 2013-10-09,
  <draft-hausenblas-csv-fragment-06.txt>

      This memo defines URI fragment identifiers for text/csv MIME
      entities.  These fragment identifiers make it possible to refer to
      parts of a text/csv MIME entity, identified by row, column, or cell.
      Fragment identification can use single items, or ranges.
      
      Note to Readers
      
      This draft should be discussed on the apps-discuss mailing list [1].
      
      Online access to all versions and files is available on github [2].

  "IPv6 Multicast in a 6rd Deployment", Behcet Sarikaya, Tina Tsou, Hui
  Ji, Cathy Zhou, 2013-09-11,
  <draft-sarikaya-softwire-6rdmulticast-06.txt>

      This memo specifies 6rd's multicast component so that IPv6 hosts can
      receive multicast data from IPv6 servers.  In the 6rd encapsulation
      solution, multicast communication is completely integrated into the
      6rd tunnel.  In the 6rd translation solution, the protocol is based
      on proxying MLD at the 6rd Customer Edge router interworking the MLD
      messages to IGMP messages and sending them upstream through a network
      which supports IPv4 multicast.  The 6rd Border Relay is a multicast
      router and interworks the IGMP to MLD for onward propasgation toward
      the IPv6 multicast source.  IPv6 Multicast data received at 6rd
      Border Relay is translated into IPv4 multicast data and and delivered
      through the IPv4 multicast tree downstream to the 6rd Customer Edge.
      The latter translates it back to IPv6 multicast data then delivers it
      to the hosts.

  "RADIUS Extensions for Port Set Configuration and Reporting", Dean
  Cheng, Jouni Korhonen, Mohamed Boucadair, Senthil Sivakumar, 2013-05-21,
  <draft-cheng-behave-cgn-cfg-radius-ext-05.txt>

      This document defines new RADIUS attributes that can be used by a
      device implementing port ranges to communicate with a RADIUS server
      to configure and/or report TCP/UDP port sets and ICMP identifiers
      mapping behavior for specific hosts.  This mechanism can be used in
      various deployment scenarios such as CGN, NAT64, Provider WiFi
      Gateway, etc.
      
      This document does not make any assumption about the deployment
      context.

  "Inter-Carrier OAM Requirements", Michael Georgiades, Filippo Cugini,
  David Berechya, Oscar de Dios, 2013-05-30,
  <draft-georgiades-opsawg-intercar-oam-req-04.txt>

      This draft specifies requirements for inter-carrier OAM supporting
      end-to-end OAM functionality and mechanisms development in a multi-
      operator environment. It reviews the already proposed OAM
      requirements addressed in IETF [RFC5706, RFC5860], ITU-T [Y.1730],MEF
      [MEFOAM] and IEEE [IEEE1, IEEE2] which were mainly proposed on a per
      transport technology basis, but aims to differentiate and focus on
      the requirements and additional requirements resulting from inter-
      operator considerations only.

  "Updated TLS Server Identity Check Procedure for Email Related
  Protocols", Alexey Melnikov, 2013-10-10,
  <draft-melnikov-email-tls-certs-01.txt>

      This document describes TLS server identity verification procedure
      for SMTP Submission, IMAP, POP and ManageSieve clients.  It replaces
      Section 2.4 of RFC 2595.

  "Home Agent Initiated Flow Binding for Mobile IPv6", Hidetoshi Yokota,
  Dae-Sun Kim, Behcet Sarikaya, Frank Xia, 2013-07-31,
  <draft-yokota-mext-ha-init-flow-binding-06.txt>

      There are scenarios in which the home agent needs to trigger flow
      binding operations towards the mobile node such as moving a flow from
      one access network to another based on the network resource
      availability.  In order for the home agent to be able to initiate
      interactions for flow bindings with the mobile node, this document
      defines new signaling messages and sub-options for Mobile IPv6.  Home
      agent initiated flow bindings are supported for both IPv4 and IPv6
      enabled mobile nodes.

  "Supporting Explicit Inclusion or Exclusion of Abstract Nodes for a
  Subset of P2MP Destinations in Path Computation Element Communication
  Protocol (PCEP).", Dhruv Dhody, Udayasree Palle, Venugopal Kondreddy,
  2013-10-09, <draft-dhody-pce-pcep-p2mp-per-destination-05.txt>

      The ability to determine paths of point-to-multipoint (P2MP)
      Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) and Generalized MPLS (GMPLS)
      Traffic Engineering Label Switched Paths (TE LSPs) is one the key
      requirements for Path Computation Element (PCE).  [RFC6006] and
      [PCE-P2MP-PROCEDURES] describes these mechanisms for intra and inter
      domain path computation via PCE(s).
      
      This document describes the motivation and PCEP extension for
      explicitly specifying abstract nodes for inclusion or exclusion for a
      subset of destinations during P2MP path computation via PCE(s).

  "Encoding of Data Structure (DS) in the Path Computation Element
  Communication Protocol (PCEP)", Dhruv Dhody, Udayasree Palle,
  2013-08-20, <draft-dhody-pce-pcep-ds-04.txt>

      The ability to compute shortest constrained Traffic Engineering Label
      Switched Paths (TE LSPs) in Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) and
      Generalized MPLS (GMPLS) networks across multiple domains has been
      identified as a key requirement for point-to-point (P2P) and point-
      to-multipoint (P2MP) scenarios.  Backward-Recursive Path Computation
      (BRPC) [RFC5441] defines Virtual Shortest Path Tree (VSPT) as a
      default de-facto data structure for path reply message in inter-
      domain scenarios.
      
      As Path Computation Element (PCE) will get used in newer scenarios
      like inter-domain, protection, P2MP etc.  As well as PCE is being
      explored to be used in Cross Stratrum Optimization (CSO) environment
      (see [CSO-PCE]) as well as in [ABNO].  Limiting PCE communication
      Protocol (PCEP) to just one data structure limits the usage of PCEP.
      Its important to keep PCEP generic enough to use differnt data
      structure and apply different algorithms.
      
      This document defines extensions to the PCEP to allow multiple data
      structures.  Extensions are defined for PCE to indicate the set of
      Data Structure (DS) it supports; also Path Computation Client (PCC)
      or PCE can indicate in a path computation request the required DS,
      and a PCE can report in a path computation reply the Data Structure
      that was used in the path reply message.

  "Security Framework for Virtualized Data Center Services", Suren
  Karavettil, Bhumip Khasnabish, So Ning, Wei Dong, 2012-12-26,
  <draft-karavettil-vdcs-security-framework-05.txt>

      This document discusses the requirements and technology gaps related
      to security in the virtualized data center services (VDCS).  The
      objective is to ensure end-to-end security for various types of
      carrier services built on virtualized infrastructure.  The issues
      covered in this draft are focused on confidentiality and integrity of
      the services in the virtualized environment; including but not
      limited to infrastructure (IaaS), platform (PaaS), and application
      (SaaS) services.  This draft also takes into account transient nature
      of identity, resources and connectivity in the virtualized
      environment.

  "Cisco Specific Information Elements reused in IPFIX", Andrew
  Yourtchenko, Paul Aitken, Benoit Claise, 2013-10-02,
  <draft-yourtchenko-cisco-ies-07.txt>

      This document describes some additional Information Elements of Cisco
      Systems, Inc. that are not listed in RFC3954.

  "User-Managed Access (UMA) Profile of OAuth 2.0", Thomas Hardjono,
  2013-06-29, <draft-hardjono-oauth-umacore-07.txt>

      User-Managed Access (UMA) is a profile of OAuth 2.0.  UMA defines how
      resource owners can control protected-resource access by clients
      operated by arbitrary requesting parties, where the resources reside
      on any number of resource servers, and where a centralized
      authorization server governs access based on resource owner policy.

  "RO Extensions for PMIPv6-LR (ROEXT)", Michael Boc, Christophe
  Janneteau, Alexandru Petrescu, 2013-04-22,
  <draft-boc-netext-lr-roext-05.txt>

      The communication path between two Hosts within a Proxy Mobile IPv6
      domain is artificially long - it involves the LMA, even if straight
      paths exist (under same MAG, or MAG-to-MAG).  Localized Routing
      PMIPv6-LR concepts developped by NETEXT WG make use of LRI/LRA
      messages to achieve optimized MAG-to-MAG straight paths.  This may
      prove inconvenient for the network operator, in that it may loose
      ability to control traffic (LMA control point is skipped).
      
      In this draft we present a middle-ground solution.  It employs new
      Intermediary Anchors (IAs) in the paths between MAGs and offers
      points of control of traffic useful for QoS and lawful interception.

  "Application Bridging for Federated Access Beyond web (ABFAB) Usability
  and User Interface Considerations", Rhys Smith, 2013-09-25,
  <draft-smith-abfab-usability-ui-considerations-04.txt>

      The use of ABFAB-based technologies requires that each user's device
      is configured with the user's identities that they wish to use in
      ABFAB transactions.  This will require something on that device,
      either built into the operating system or a standalone utility, that
      will manage the user's identities and identity to service mappings.
      Anyone designing that "something" will face the same set of
      challenges.  This document aims to document these challenges with the
      aim of producing well-thought out UIs with some degree of
      consistency.

  "BGPSEC Design Choices and Summary of Supporting Discussions",
  Kotikalapudi Sriram, 2013-07-08,
  <draft-sriram-bgpsec-design-choices-04.txt>

      This document has been written to capture the design rationale for
      the individual draft-00 version of BGPSEC protocol specification (I-D
      .lepinski-bgpsec-protocol-00).  It lists the decisions that were made
      in favor of or against each design choice, and presents brief
      summaries of the arguments that aided the decision process.  A
      similar document can be published in the future as the BGPSEC design
      discussions make further progress and additional design
      considerations are discussed and finalized.

  "RBridge: Pseudo-Nickname", ZTE Corporation, Tissa Senevirathne, Radia
  Perlman, Donald Eastlake, Mingui Zhang, fangwei hu, 2013-06-28,
  <draft-hu-trill-pseudonode-nickname-05.txt>

      RBridges provide provide end-station services to their attached end
      stations.  To avoid potential frame duplication and loops, the rule
      that only one edge RBridge is allowed to be the frame forwarder of a
      VLAN on a shared LAN segment is employed by base TRILL protocol, even
      though there are multiple RBridges attached to that segment.
      However, in some application scenarios, for example an end station is
      multi-homed to multiple RBridges, there is a need to improve the
      resiliency and increase the available network bandwidth of the
      connection.  This means all those RBriges attached to the end station
      can act as the frame forwarders of a specific VLAN.  This kind of
      active-active connection violates the above rule.  The violation may
      bring some additional problems, such as the flip-flopping of the
      nickname-MAC correspondences for such end stations in remote
      RBridges' forwarding tables, frame dropping because of failure of
      Reverse Path Forwarding Check(RPF Check) on RBridges, etc.  The RPF
      Check problem has been addressed in [CMT].  This document proposes
      the concept of Virtual RBridge, along with the pseudo-nickname
      configuration for this Virtual RBridge, to address the above problems
      in accompany with [CMT].

  "Generation of Deterministic Initialization Vectors (IVs) and Nonces",
  David McGrew, 2013-10-15, <draft-mcgrew-iv-gen-03.txt>

      Many cryptographic algorithms use deterministic IVs, including CTR,
      GCM, CCM, GMAC.  This type of IV is also called a (deterministic)
      nonce.  Deterministic IVs must be distinct, for each fixed key, to
      guarantee the security of the algorithm.  This note describes best
      practices for the generation of such IVs, and summarizes how they are
      generated and used in different protocols.  Some problem areas are
      highlighted, and test considerations are outlined.  This note will be
      useful to implementers of algorithms using deterministic IVs, and to
      protocol or system designers using them.

  "Mediated RSA cryptography specification for additive private key
  splitting (mRSAA)", Miroslaw Kutylowski, Przemyslaw Kubiak, Michal
  Tabor, Daniel Wachnik, 2012-11-05,
  <draft-kutylowski-mrsa-algorithm-03.txt>

      This document describes recommendations for the implementation of
      public key cryptography based on the mediated RSA algorithm. The
      Mediated RSA algorithm bases on fragmentation of a private key. As a
      result the signature process consists from multiple stages. The
      verification process is the same as in the case of RSA algorithm
      [RFC3447].

  "The Universal Voting Markup Language (UVML)", Erin Phillips,
  2013-07-15, <draft-phillips-uvml-04.txt>

      This document describes the Universal Voting Markup Language (UVML),
      a syntax for the structured representation of opinion in free text.
      Using UVML, opinions can be encoded in text, image, or video, and
      reliably interpreted by either human readers or automated-agents.
      UVML supports both rating and ranking semantics.  Ratings may be
      scored using symbols associated with the five most commonly used
      opinion dimensions: quality(*), importance(!), outlook($), support-
      opposition(+), and likelihood(%).  In addition, UVML defines a syntax
      for optionally including a demographic signature by which voters can
      publish basic demographic information with their UVML votes.  The
      design of UVML leverages cross-cultural sentiment and voting-systems
      scholarship.

  "PW Endpoint Fast Failure Protection", Yimin Shen, Rahul Aggarwal, Wim
  Henderickx, 2013-07-01,
  <draft-shen-pwe3-endpoint-fast-protection-04.txt>

      This document specifies a fast mechanism for protecting pseudowires
      (PWs) against egress endpoint failures, including egress attachment
      circuit failure, egress PE failure, multi-segment PW terminating PE
      failure, and multi-segment PW switching PE failure.  Designed on the
      basis of multi-homed CE, PW redundancy, upstream label assignment and
      context specific label switching, the mechanism enables local repair
      to be performed by a router upstream adjacent to a failure.  In
      particular, the router can restore PW traffic in the order of tens of
      milliseconds, by transmitting the traffic to a protector through a
      pre-established bypass tunnel.  Therefore, the mechanism can reduce
      traffic loss before global repair reacts to the failure and the
      network converges on the topology changes due to the failure.

  "Generalized Label for Super-Channel Assignment on Flexible Grid",
  Iftekhar Hussain, Zhong Pan, Marco Sosa, Andrew Malis, Abinder Dhillon,
  2013-10-08, <draft-hussain-ccamp-super-channel-label-06.txt>

      To enable scaling of existing transport systems to ultra high data
      rates of 1 Tbps and beyond, next generation systems providing super-
      channel switching capability are currently being developed. To allow
      efficient allocation of optical spectral bandwidth for such high bit
      rate systems, International Telecommunication Union
      Telecommunication Standardization Sector (ITU-T) is extending the
      G.694.1 grid standard (termed "Fixed-Grid") to include flexible grid
      (termed "Flex-Grid") support (draft revised ITU-T G.694.1, revision
      1.4, Oct 2011). This necessitates definition of new label format for
      the Flex-Grid. This document defines a super-channel label as a
      Super-Channel Identifier and an associated list of 12.5 GHz slices
      representing the optical spectrum of the super-channel. The label
      information can be encoded using a fixed length or variable length
      format. This label format can be used in GMPLS signaling and routing
      protocol to establish super-channel based optical label switched
      paths (LSPs).

  "Energy Management Terminology", John Parello, 2013-10-19,
  <draft-parello-eman-definitions-09.txt,.pdf>

      This document contains definitions and terms used in the
      Energy Management Working Group. Each term  contains a
      definition(s), example, and reference to a normative,
      informative or well know source. Terms originating in this
      draft should be either composed of or adapted from other
      terms in the draft with a source. The defined terms will
      then be used in other drafts as defined here
      Table of Contents

  "The Interior Routing Overlay Network (IRON)", Fred Templin, 2013-05-03,
  <draft-templin-ironbis-15.txt>

      Since large-scale Internetworks such as the public Internet must
      continue to support escalating growth due to increasing demand, it is
      clear that Autonomous Systems (ASes) must avoid injecting excessive
      de-aggregated prefixes into the interdomain routing system and
      instead mitigate de-aggregation internally.  This document describes
      an Interior Routing Overlay Network (IRON) architecture that supports
      sustainable growth within AS-interior routing domains while requiring
      no changes to end systems and no changes to the exterior routing
      system.  In addition to routing scaling, IRON further addresses other
      important issues including mobility management, mobile networks,
      multihoming, traffic engineering, NAT traversal and security.  While
      business considerations are an important determining factor for
      widespread adoption, they are out of scope for this document.

  "An Extension Language for the DNS", John Levine, Paul Vixie,
  2013-08-25, <draft-levine-dnsextlang-07.txt>

      Adding new RRTYPEs to the DNS requires that DNS servers and
      provisioning software be upgraded to support each new RRTYPE in
      Master files.  This document defines a DNS extension language
      intended to allow most new RRTYPEs to be supported by adding entries
      to configuration data read by the DNS software, with no software
      changes needed for each RRTYPE.

  "VXLAN: A Framework for Overlaying Virtualized Layer 2 Networks over
  Layer 3 Networks", Mallik Mahalingam, Dinesh Dutt, Kenneth Duda, Puneet
  Agarwal, Lawrence Kreeger, T. Sridhar, Mike Bursell, Chris Wright,
  2013-10-17, <draft-mahalingam-dutt-dcops-vxlan-05.txt>

      This document describes Virtual eXtensible Local Area Network
      (VXLAN), which is used to address the need for overlay networks
      within virtualized data centers accommodating multiple tenants. The
      scheme and the related protocols can be used in cloud service
      provider and enterprise data center networks.

  "The proposal of A Uniform Resource Name (URN) Formal Namespace for the
  Local Government ICT Platform Project in Japan", Kazuaki Ohara,
  2013-06-07, <draft-kanazawa-applic-urn-02.txt>

      This document describes the Namespace Idendifier (NID) 'applic' for
      Uniform Resource Name (URN) which is used to identify resources
      released by the Association for Promotion of Public Local Information
      and Communication (APPLIC).  APPLIC publishes and manages
      specifications that define unique and persistent resources which make
      use of the namespace.
      (APPLIC is a nonprofit organization which consists of local
      governments, private companies and academic experts in Japan.)

  "NVGRE: Network Virtualization using Generic Routing Encapsulation",
  Murari Sridharan, Albert Greenberg, Yu-Shun Wang, Pankaj Garg,
  Narasimhan Venkataramiah, Kenneth Duda, Ilango Ganga, Geng Lin, Mark
  Pearson, Patricia Thaler, Chait Tumuluri, 2013-08-12,
  <draft-sridharan-virtualization-nvgre-03.txt>

      This document describes the usage of Generic Routing Encapsulation
      (GRE) header for Network Virtualization (NVGRE) in multi-tenant
      datacenters. Network Virtualization decouples virtual networks and
      addresses from physical network infrastructure, providing isolation
      and concurrency between multiple virtual networks on the same
      physical network infrastructure. This document also introduces a
      Network Virtualization framework to illustrate the use cases, but
      the focus is on specifying the data plane aspect of NVGRE.

  "TFRC-based Congestion Control for Saratoga", Wesley Eddy, Lloyd Wood,
  Will Ivancic, 2013-10-20, <draft-eddy-tsvwg-saratoga-tfrc-04.txt>

      This document specifies the use of TCP-Friendly Rate Control (TFRC)
      with the Saratoga data transfer protocol.  The necessary conventions
      that a Saratoga sender and receiver implementation must follow if
      they wish to enable the use of TFRC are described.

  "Deterministic Address Mapping to Reduce Logging in Carrier Grade NAT
  Deployments", Chris Donley, Chris Grundemann, Vikas Sarawat, Karthik
  Sundaresan, Olivier Vautrin, 2013-07-13,
  <draft-donley-behave-deterministic-cgn-06.txt>

      In some instances, Service Providers have a legal logging requirement
      to be able to map a subscriber's inside address with the address used
      on the public Internet (e.g. for abuse response).  Unfortunately,
      many Carrier Grade NAT logging solutions require active logging of
      dynamic translations.  Carrier Grade NAT port assignments are often
      per-connection, but could optionally use port ranges.  Research
      indicates that per-connection logging is not scalable in many
      residential broadband services.  This document suggests a way to
      manage Carrier Grade NAT translations in such a way as to
      significantly reduce the amount of logging required while providing
      traceability for abuse response.  While the authors acknowledge that
      IPv6 is a preferred solution, Carrier Grade NAT is a reality in many
      networks, and is needed in situations where either customer equipment
      or Internet content only supports IPv4; this approach should in no
      way slow the deployment of IPv6.

  "Congestion control for the Saratoga protocol", Lloyd Wood, Wesley Eddy,
  Will Ivancic, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-wood-tsvwg-saratoga-congestion-control-04.txt>

      Saratoga is a data transfer protocol designed to carry potentially
      large volumes of data over difficult network paths, often including
      only a single high-rate link and only one application flow.  As the
      requirements for use vary across deployment environments, the base
      Saratoga specification only assumes that an implementation will be
      able to clock packets out at a configurable rate, and beyond this
      specifies no inherent or particular congestion-control behaviour.
      The design of Saratoga deliberately supports the integration of
      congestion-control algorithms without modification to the base
      protocol.  This document describes how congestion control can be
      supported in the Saratoga transfer protocol.  Saratoga is intended
      for use in private networks, where its use is engineered as a single
      flow to fill a link.  However, as Saratoga is implemented over UDP,
      it can be multiplexed, and can be run across the public Internet, in
      which case congestion control in accordance with the UDP Guidelines
      becomes necessary.

  "Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP): Schema for Printer
  Services", Pat Fleming, Ira McDonald, 2013-09-19,
  <draft-mcdonald-ldap-printer-schema-05.txt>

      This document defines a schema, object classes and attributes, for
      Printers and Print Services, for use with directories that support
      Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (RFC 4510).  This document is
      based on the Printer attributes listed in Appendix E of Internet
      Printing Protocol/1.1 (IPP) (RFC 2911).  Additional Printer
      attributes are based on definitions in the Printer MIB v2 (RFC 3805),
      IEEE-ISTO PWG Command Set for IEEE 1284 Device ID (PWG 5107.2),
      IEEE-ISTO PWG IPP Job and Printer Extensions - Set 3 (PWG 5100.13),
      and IEEE-ISTO PWG IPP Everywhere (PWG 5100.14).
      
      This document is published by the IETF on behalf of the Internet
      Printing Protocol Working Group of the IEEE-ISTO Printer Working
      Group.
      
      This document updates RFC 3712.

  "IPv6 Prefix Assignment in Small Networks", Fred Baker, Ralph Droms,
  2012-03-07, <draft-baker-homenet-prefix-assignment-01.txt>

      It is necessary to allocate prefixes in small networks, which include
      residential and Small Office/Home Office (SOHO) networks in a manner
      that minimizes or eliminates manual configuration.  This note
      suggests an approach.

  "IANA Allocated DNS RRtype Codes Without Documentation", Edward Lewis,
  2011-10-13, <draft-lewis-dns-undocumented-types-01.txt>

      In the IANA registry of Resource Record (RR) TYPEs, as of October 1,
      2011, there are 10 type code values allocated with references that
      are individual email boxes and not stable documents.  Some of the
      registrations represent works in progress and such a reference is
      viable.  Some registrations are dormant or dead efforts.  In all
      cases it would be helpful to have some reference to material
      describing the type.

  "Generalized Labels for the Flexi-Grid in Lambda Switch Capable (LSC)
  Label Switching Routers", Daniel King, Adrian Farrel, Yao Li, Fatai
  Zhang, 2013-09-30,
  <draft-farrkingel-ccamp-flexigrid-lambda-label-07.txt>

      GMPLS supports the description of optical switching by identifying
      entries in fixed lists of switchable wavelengths (called grids)
      through the encoding of lambda labels.  Work within the ITU-T Study
      Group 15 has defined a finer granularity grid, and the facility to
      flexibly select different widths of spectrum from the grid.  This
      document defines a new GMPLS lambda label format to support this
      flexi-grid.
      
      This document updates RFC 3471 and RFC 6205 by introducing a new
      label format.

  "Multiplexing Multiple RTP Sessions onto a Single Lower-Layer
  Transport", Magnus Westerlund, Colin Perkins, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-westerlund-avtcore-transport-multiplexing-07.txt>

      This memo defines a mechanism to allow multiple RTP sessions to be
      multiplexed onto a single lower-layer transport flow (e.g., onto a
      single UDP 5-tuple).  Requirements for multiplexing RTP sessions are
      discussed, along with the trade-off between the different options.  A
      shim-based multiplexing layer is proposed, along with associated
      signalling.

  "Securing Header Fields with S/MIME", Laurent Cailleux, Chris Bonatti,
  2013-07-30, <draft-cailleux-secure-headers-03.txt>

      This document describes how the S/MIME protocol can be
      extended in order to secure message header fields. This
      technology provides security services such as data integrity,
      non-repudiation and confidentiality. This extension is
      referred to as 'Secure Headers'.

  "RSVP-TE Signaling Extensions in support of Flexible Grid", Fatai Zhang,
  Xian Zhang, Adrian Farrel, Oscar de Dios, Daniele Ceccarelli,
  2013-06-24, <draft-zhang-ccamp-flexible-grid-rsvp-te-ext-02.txt>

      This memo describes the extensions to RSVP-TE signaling to support
      Label Switched Paths in a GMPLS-controlled network that includes
      devices using the new flexible optical grid.

  "PIM flooding mechanism and source discovery", IJsbrand Wijnands, Stig
  Venaas, Michael Brig, 2013-07-12,
  <draft-wijnands-pim-source-discovery-bsr-03.txt>

      PIM Sparse-Mode uses a Rendezvous Point (RP) and shared trees to
      forward multicast packets to Last Hop Routers (LHR).  After the first
      packet is received by the LHR, the source of the multicast stream is
      learned and the Shortest Path Tree (SPT) can be joined.  This draft
      proposes a solution to support PIM Sparse Mode (SM) without the need
      for PIM registers, RPs or shared trees.  Multicast source information
      is flooded throughout the multicast domain using a new generic PIM
      flooding mechanism.  This mechanism is defined in this document, and
      is modeled after the PIM Bootstrap Router protocol.  By removing the
      need for RPs and shared trees, the PIM-SM procedures are simplified,
      improving router operations, management and making the protocol more
      robust.

  "Support for Long-lived BGP Graceful Restart", Jim Uttaro, Enke Chen,
  Bruno Decraene, John Scudder, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-uttaro-idr-bgp-persistence-02.txt>

      In this document we introduce a new BGP capability termed "Long-lived
      Graceful Restart Capability" so that stale routes can be retained for
      a longer time upon session failure.  In addition a new BGP community
      "LLGR_STALE" is introduced for marking stale routes retained for a
      longer time.  We also specify that such long-lived stale routes be
      treated as the least-preferred, and their advertisements be limited
      to BGP speakers that have advertised the new capability.  Use of this
      extension is not advisable in all cases, and we provide guidelines to
      help determine if it is.

  "DHCPv6 class based prefix", Cisco Systems, Gaurav Halwasia, Sri
  Gundavelli, Hui Deng, Laurent Thiebaut, Jouni Korhonen, Ian Farrer,
  2013-07-15, <draft-bhandari-dhc-class-based-prefix-05.txt>

      This document introduces options to communicate property and
      associate meta data with prefixes.  It extends DHCPv6 prefix
      delegation and address allocation using the meta data for selection
      of prefixes and addresses.

  "OSPF Topology-Transparent Zone", Huaimo Chen, Renwei Li, Gregory
  Cauchie, Alvaro Retana, So Ning, Mehmet Toy, Lei Liu, 2013-07-17,
  <draft-chen-ospf-ttz-06.txt>

      This document presents a topology-transparent zone in a domain.  A
      topology-transparent zone comprises a group of routers and a number
      of links connecting these routers.  Any router outside of the zone is
      not aware of the zone.  The information about the links and routers
      inside the zone is not distributed to any router outside of the zone.
      Any link state change such as a link down inside the zone is not seen
      by any router outside of the zone.

  "Extended IPv6 Addressing for Encoding Port Range", Congxiao Bao, Xing
  Li, 2013-06-24, <draft-bcx-behave-address-fmt-extension-04.txt>

      This document discusses an extension of the algorithmic translation
      between IPv4 and IPv4-translatable IPv6 addresses.  The extended
      address format contains transport-layer port set identification
      (PSID) which allows several IPv6 nodes to share a single IPv4 address
      with each node managing a different range of ports.  This address
      format extension can be used for IPv4/IPv6 translation, as well as
      IPv4 over IPv6 tunneling.

  "Directory Assisted TRILL Encapsulation", Linda Dunbar, Donald Eastlake,
  Radia Perlman, Igor Gashinsky, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-dunbar-trill-directory-assisted-encap-04.txt>

      This draft describes how data center network can benefit from
      non-RBridge nodes performing TRILL encapsulation with
      assistance from directory service.

  "Transparent Interconnection of Lots of Links (TRILL) over IP", Margaret
  Wasserman, Donald Eastlake, Dacheng Zhang, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-mrw-trill-over-ip-03.txt>

      The Transparent Interconnection of Lots of Links (TRILL) protocol is
      implemented by devices called TRILL Switches or RBridges (Routing
      Bridges).  TRILL supports both point-to-point and multi-access links
      and is designed so that a variety of link protocols can be used
      between TRILL switch ports.  This document standardizes methods for
      encapsulating TRILL in IP(v4 or v6) to provide a unified TRILL
      campus.

  "Internet Exchange Route Server Operations", Nick Hilliard, Elisa
  Jasinska, Robert Raszuk, Niels Bakker, 2013-06-07,
  <draft-hilliard-ix-bgp-route-server-operations-03.txt>

      The popularity of Internet exchange points (IXPs) brings new
      challenges to interconnecting networks.  While bilateral eBGP
      sessions between exchange participants were historically the most
      common means of exchanging reachability information over an IXP, the
      overhead associated with this interconnection method causes serious
      operational and administrative scaling problems for IXP participants.
      
      Multilateral interconnection using Internet route servers can
      dramatically reduce the administrative and operational overhead of
      IXP participation and these systems used by many IXP participants as
      a preferred means of exchanging routing information.
      
      This document describes operational considerations for multilateral
      interconnections at IXPs.

  "Prefix Assignment in a Home Network", Jari Arkko, Acee Lindem, Benjamin
  Paterson, 2013-05-23, <draft-arkko-homenet-prefix-assignment-04.txt>

      This memo describes a prefix assignment mechanism for home networks.
      It is expected that home gateway routers are allocated an IPv6 prefix
      through DHCPv6 Prefix Delegation (PD) or that a prefix is made
      available through other means.  This prefix needs to be divided among
      the multiple subnets in a home network.  This memo describes a
      mechanism for such division, or assignment, via OSPFv3.  This is an
      alternative design to also using DHCPv6 PD for the assignment.  The
      memo is input to the working group so that it can make a decision on
      which type of design to pursue.  It is expected that a routing-
      protocol based assignment uses a minimal amount of prefixes.

  "Problem Statement: TRILL Active/Active Edge", Mingui Zhang, Donald
  Eastlake, 2013-08-21, <draft-zhang-trill-aggregation-04.txt>

      This document specifies TRILL active/active edge which allows
      multiple RBridges concurrently forward data frames of the same VLAN
      on links bundled by a Multi-Chassis Link Aggregation Group. With this
      kind of connection, end nodes may increase the bandwidth and
      reliability of the access at the edge of TRILL campuses. It's
      required that no loop or duplication is caused by this new connection
      type. Besides this basic requirement, this document outlines other
      potential issues associated with TRILL active/active edge and
      investigates how these issues may be addressed.

  "Cross Stratum Optimization Architecture for Optical as a Service", Hui
  Yang, Yongli Zhao, Jie Zhang, Young Lee, Yi Lin, Fatai Zhang,
  2013-06-27, <draft-yangh-cso-oaas-04.txt>

      Data centers based applications provide a wide variety of services
      such as cloud computing, video gaming, grid application and others.
      Currently application decisions are made with little information
      concerning underlying network used to deliver those services so that
      such decisions cannot be the most optimal from both network and
      application resource utilization and quality of service objectives.
      
      This document presents a novel architecture of Cross Stratum
      Optimization for application and network resource in dynamic optical
      networks.  Several global load balancing strategies are proposed and
      demonstrated by experiments in Optical as a Service experimental
      environment.

  "Using Simulcast in RTP Sessions", Magnus Westerlund, BoB, Suhas
  Nandakumar, 2013-10-21, <draft-westerlund-avtcore-rtp-simulcast-03.txt>

      In some application scenarios it may be desirable to send multiple
      differently encoded versions of the same Media Source in independent
      Source Packet Streams.  This is called Simulcast.  This document
      discusses the best way of accomplishing Simulcast in RTP and how to
      signal it in SDP.  A solution is defined by making three extensions
      to SDP, and using RTP/RTCP identification methods to relate RTP
      Source Packet Streams.  The first SDP extension consists of two new
      session level SDP attributes that express capability to send or
      receive Simulcast Source Packet Streams, respectively.  The second
      SDP extension introduces an SDP media level attribute that groups and
      identifies a selected set of media level parameters for a specific
      direction, called a media configuration.  The third SDP extension
      describes how to group such media configurations on SDP session or
      media level for Simulcast purposes.

  "RTP Media Stream Pause and Resume", Azam Akram, BoB, Roni Even, Magnus
  Westerlund, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-westerlund-avtext-rtp-stream-pause-04.txt>

      With the increased popularity of real-time multimedia applications,
      it is desirable to provide good control of resource usage, and users
      also demand more control over communication sessions.  This document
      describes how a receiver in a multimedia conversation can pause and
      resume incoming data from a sender by sending real-time feedback
      messages when using Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) for real time
      data transport.  This document extends the Codec Control Messages
      (CCM) RTCP feedback package by adding a group of new real-time
      feedback messages used to pause and resume RTP Packet Streams.  This
      document updates RFC 5104.

  "2547 egress PE Fast Failure Protection", Jeyananth Jeganathan, Hannes
  Gredler, Bruno Decraene, 2013-07-29,
  <draft-minto-2547-egress-node-fast-protection-02.txt>

      This document specifies a fast-protection mechanism for protecting
      [RFC2547] based VPN service against egress node failure.  This
      mechanism enables local repair to be performed immediately upon a
      egress node failure.  In particular, the routers upstream to egress
      node could redirect VPN traffic to a protector (a new role) to repair
      in the order of tens of milliseconds, achieving fast protection that
      is comparable to MPLS fast reroute.

  "Transport of CoAP over SMS", Markus Becker, Kepeng Li, Thomas Poetsch,
  Koojana Kuladinithi, 2013-08-08,
  <draft-becker-core-coap-sms-gprs-04.txt>

      Short Message Service (SMS) of mobile cellular networks is frequently
      used in Machine-To-Machine (M2M) communications, such as for
      telematic devices.  The service offers small packet sizes and high
      delays just as other typical low-power and lossy networks (LLNs),
      i.e. 6LoWPANs.  The design of the Constrained Application Protocol
      (CoAP), that took the limitations of LLNs into account, is thus also
      applicable to other transports.  The adaptation of CoAP to SMS
      transport mechanisms is described in this document.

  "MPLS-TP protection for interconnected rings", Guoman Liu, Masahiro
  Daikoku, Takeshi Maruyama, 2013-10-17,
  <draft-liu-mpls-tp-interconnected-ring-protection-05.txt>

      The requirements for MPLS Transport Profile include a requirement
      (R93) that requires MPLS-TP must support recovery mechanisms for a
      network constructed from interconnected rings that protect user data
      that traverses more than one ring.  In particular, This includes
      protecting against cases of failure at the ring-interconnect nodes
      and links.  This document presents different scenario of
      interconnected rings and special mechanism to address recovery of the
      failure of ring-interconnect nodes and links.  .
      
      This document is a product of a joint Internet Engineering Task
      Force(IETF) / International Telecommunications Union
      Telecommunications Standardization Sector (ITU-T) effort to include
      an MPLS Transport Profile within the IETF MPLS and PWE3 architectures
      to support the capabilities and functionalities of a packet transport
      network as defined by the ITU-T.

  "A framework for RPs to use IKEv2 KMP", Uma Chunduri, Albert Tian,
  Joseph Touch, 2013-07-05,
  <draft-chunduri-karp-using-ikev2-with-tcp-ao-05.txt>

      This document describes a mechanism to enable using IKEv2 with TCP-
      AO, which may also be of more general use to other pairwise Routing
      Protocols.

  "RTCP Source Description Item SRCNAME to Label Individual Media
  Sources", Magnus Westerlund, BoB, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-westerlund-avtext-rtcp-sdes-srcname-03.txt>

      This document defines a new Source Description (SDES) item called
      SRCNAME, which uniquely identifies a single media source, like a
      camera or a microphone.  It also enables identification of the
      encoding to support when multiple ones are produced.  That way anyone
      receiving the SDES information from a set of interlinked RTP sessions
      can determine which SSRCs are logically related to the same media
      source and encoding.  In addition the new SDES item is also defined
      for usage with both a header extension and with the SDP source
      specific media attribute ("a=ssrc").  Enabling an end-point to
      receive the SRCNAME with the relevant RTP packets, as well as RTCP,
      or learn the source bindings through signalling, ahead of receiving
      RTP and RTCP packets.

  "SM2 Digital Signature Algorithm", Sean Shen, Sean Shen, XiaoDong Lee,
  2013-07-15, <draft-shen-sm2-ecdsa-01.txt>

      This document discribles an Digital Signature Algorithm based on
      elliptic curves which is invented by Xiaoyun Wang et al.  This
      digital signature algorithm is published by Chinese Commercial
      Cryptography Administration Office for the use of electronic
      authentication service system.
      
      The document *** published by Chinese Commercial Cryptography
      Administration Office includes four parts: general introdocution,
      Digital Signature Algorithm, Key Exchange Protocol and Public Key
      Encryption Algorithm.  This document only gives the general
      introduction and digital signature algorithm.

  "CalDAV Managed Attachments", Cyrus Daboo, Arnaud Quillaud, 2013-09-12,
  <draft-daboo-caldav-attachments-02.txt>

      This specification defines an extension to the calendar access
      protocol (CalDAV) to allow attachments associated with iCalendar
      data, to be stored and managed on the server.

  "GMPLS OSPF-TE Extensions in support of Flexible Grid DWDM Networks",
  Fatai Zhang, Xian Zhang, Ramon Casellas, Oscar de Dios, Daniele
  Ceccarelli, 2013-06-28,
  <draft-zhang-ccamp-flexible-grid-ospf-ext-02.txt>

      This memo describes the OSPF-TE extensions in support of GMPLS
      control of networks that include devices that use the new flexible
      optical grid.

  "OSPFTE extension to support GMPLS for Flex Grid", Iftekhar Hussain,
  Rajan Rao, Marco Sosa, Abinder Dhillon, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-dhillon-ccamp-super-channel-ospfte-ext-06.txt,.pdf>

      This document specifies the extension to TELINK LSA of OSPF routing
      protocol [RFC4203] [3] in support of GMPLS [1] for flex-grid
      networks [2].

  "Control Messages Protocol for Use with Network Time Protocol Version
  4", David Mills, Karen O'Donoghue, Harlan Stenn, Phil Chimento,
  2013-10-21, <draft-odonoghue-ntpv4-control-02.txt>

      This document describes the structure of the control messages used
      with the Network Time Protocol.  These control messages can be used
      to monitor and control the Network Time Protocol application running
      on any IP network attached computer.  The information in this
      informational RFC was originally described in Appendix B of RFC 1305.

  "The Lightweight On-demand Ad hoc Distance-vector Routing Protocol -
  Next Generation (LOADng)", Thomas Clausen, Axel Verdiere, Jiazi Yi,
  Afshin Niktash, Yuichi Igarashi, Hiroki Satoh, Ulrich Herberg, Cedric
  Lavenu, Thierry Lys, Justin Dean, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-clausen-lln-loadng-10.txt>

      This document describes the Lightweight Ad hoc On-Demand - Next
      Generation (LOADng) distance vector routing protocol, a reactive
      routing protocol intended for use in Mobile Ad hoc NETworks (MANETs).

  "TRILL IS-IS MTU Negotiation", Mingui Zhang, Xudong Zhang, Donald
  Eastlake, 2013-10-21, <draft-zhang-trill-mtu-negotiation-04.txt>

      The base IETF TRILL protocol has a TRILL campus wide MTU feature,
      specified in RFC 6325 and RFC6327bis, that assures that link status
      changes can be successfully flooded throughout the campus while being
      able to take advantage of a campus wide capability to support jumbo
      packets. This document specifies optional updates to that MTU feature
      to take advantage, for appropriate link local packets, of link local
      MTUs that exceed the TRILL campus MTU. In addition, it specifies an
      efficient algorithm for local MTU testing. It updates RFC 6325.

  "Algorithms for computing Maximally Redundant Trees for IP/LDP Fast-
  Reroute", Gabor Envedi, Andras Csaszar, Alia Atlas, 
  cbowers@juniper.net, Abishek Gopalan, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-enyedi-rtgwg-mrt-frr-algorithm-04.txt>

      A complete solution for IP and LDP Fast-Reroute using Maximally
      Redundant Trees is presented in [I-D.ietf-rtgwg-mrt-frr-
      architecture].  This document defines the associated MRT Lowpoint
      algorithm that is used in the default MRT profile to compute both the
      necessary Maximally Redundant Trees with their associated next-hops
      and the alternates to select for MRT-FRR.

  "mLDP Extensions for Multi Topology Routing", IJsbrand Wijnands, Kamran
  Raza, 2013-06-20, <draft-iwijnand-mpls-mldp-multi-topology-03.txt>

      The Multi-Topology Routing (MTR) enables service differentiation
      through class-based forwarding. IGP protocols (OSPF and IS-IS) have
      already been extended to setup MTR. In order to deploy mLDP in an
      MTR network, mLDP is also required to become topology-aware. This
      document specifies extensions to mLDP to support Multi-Topology
      Routing.

  "Licklider Transmission Protocol (LTP), Compressed Bundle Header
  Encoding (CBHE), and Bundle Protocol IANA Registries", Keith Scott, Marc
  Blanchet, 2013-10-08, <draft-dtnrg-ltp-cbhe-registries-07.txt>

      The DTNRG research group has defined the experimental Licklider
      Transmission Protocol (LTP) [RFC5326] and the Compressed Bundle
      Header Encoding (CBHE) [RFC6260] mechanism for the InterPlanetary
      Network (ipn URI scheme).  Moreover, RFC5050 [RFC5050] defines values
      for the Bundle Administrative Record Type.  All of these fields are
      subject to a registry.  For the purpose of its research work, the
      group has created ad-hoc registries.  As the specifications are
      stable and have multiple interoperable implementations, the group
      would like to hand off the registries to IANA for official
      management.  This document describes the actions needed to be
      executed by IANA.

  "A General Framework of Source Address Validation and Traceback for
  IPv4/IPv6 Transition Scenarios", Hui Deng, Guangwu Hu, Jun Bi, Mingwei
  Xu, Fan Shi, 2013-05-07, <draft-xu-savi-transition-03.txt>

      IP spoofing always is bothering us along with the Internet invention.
      With the rapid development of IPv6 next generation Internet, this
      issue is more prominent. Though many studies have made their
      contributions to the prevention of IP-spoofing, the most excellent
      one is the SAVI (Source Address Validation Improvement) proposal
      advocated by IETF, since it can prevent IP-spoofing from happening by
      automatically binding the key properties of hosts in layer2 access
      subnet. Nevertheless, till now, SAVI only focuses on the IPv6 stack
      and simple network access scenarios. To the best of our knowledge,
      there is no solution even has paid attention to IPv4/IPv6 transition
      scenarios. Given the fact that IPv4/IPv6 transition will continue to
      be adopted for a long period of time, this issue is becoming
      increasingly urgent. However, since transition schemes are plenty and
      diverse, hardly can an ordinary solution satisfy all the requirements
      of various transition scenarios. In this document, we present an
      improved general SAVI-based framework of IP source address validation
      and traceback for IPv4/IPv6 transition scenarios. To achieve this
      goal, we extract essential and mutual properties from these
      transition schemes, and create sub-solutions for each property.
      Naturally, if one transition scheme is proposed by combining some
      properties, the corresponding sub-solutions would be included into
      its IP source address validation and traceback solution. Therefore,
      the advantage of this framework is its capability to adapt to all the
      transition schemes.

  "SAVI Requirements and Solutions for ISP IPv6 Access Network", Fan Shi,
  Hui Deng, Liang Zhu, Guangwu Hu, 2013-05-07,
  <draft-shi-savi-access-03.txt>

      Internet is always confronted with many security threats based on IP
      address spoofing which can enable impersonation and malicious traffic
      redirection. Unfortunately, the Internet architecture fails to
      provide the defense mechanism. Source Address Validation Improvement
      (SAVI) was developed to prevent IP source address spoofing.
      Especially, the mechanism is essential for ISPs. However, due to the
      diversity of address assignment methods, SAVI solution is also
      different accordingly. This document describes five scenarios of
      ISPs'IPv6 access network, and moreover, states its SAVI requirements
      and tentative solutions accordingly.

  "Multi-hop Ad Hoc Wireless Communication", Emmanuel Baccelli, Charles
  Perkins, 2013-07-11,
  <draft-baccelli-manet-multihop-communication-02.txt>

      This document describes characteristics of communication between
      nodes in a multi-hop ad hoc wireless network, that protocol engineers
      and system analysts should be aware of when designing solutions for
      ad hoc networks at the IP layer.

  "More Accurate ECN Feedback in TCP", Mirja Kuehlewind, Richard
  Scheffenegger, 2013-06-20, <draft-kuehlewind-tcpm-accurate-ecn-02.txt>

      Explicit Congestion Notification (ECN) is an IP/TCP mechanism where
      network nodes can mark IP packets instead of dropping them to
      indicate congestion to the end-points.  ECN-capable receivers will
      feedback this information to the sender.  ECN is specified for TCP in
      such a way that only one feedback signal can be transmitted per
      Round-Trip Time (RTT).  Recently, new TCP mechanisms like ConEx or
      DCTCP need more accurate ECN feedback information in the case where
      more than one marking is received in one RTT.  This document
      specifies a different scheme for the ECN feedback in the TCP header
      to provide more than one feedback signal per RTT.  Furthermore this
      document specifies a re-use of the Urgent Pointer in the TCP header
      if the URG flag is not set to increase the robustness of the proposed
      ECN feedback scheme.

  "Internationalized Domain Name Mapping Extension for the Extensible
  Provisioning Protocol (EPP)", Francisco Obispo, Luis Munoz, 2013-05-06,
  <draft-obispo-epp-idn-03.txt>

      This document describes an Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP)
      extension mapping for the provisioning of Internationalized Domain
      Names (IDN) stored in a shared central repository.  This mapping
      extends the EPP domain name mapping to provide additional features
      required to implement registrations of domain names in characters
      sets other than ASCII.

  "p2mp pw protection for MPLS-TP network", Guoman Liu, 2013-06-09,
  <draft-liu-pwe3-mpls-tp-p2mp-pw-protection-03.txt>

      The requirements of MPLS-TP in RFC 5654 include a requirement(R63)
      that requires MPLS-TP MUST be possible to provide protection for
      MPLS-TP data plane without any IP forwarding capability and control
      plane.If applying 1:1 protection mechanism for the p2mp traffic in
      rfc6718 , it must have a return path to coordinate switch state to
      select the same path to receive and send traffic packet.For the above
      problem,this document describes a kind of protection solution to
      recovery and protect the p2mp traffic under the failure condition.
      
      
      This document is a product of a joint Internet Task Force(IETF) /
      International Telecommunications Union Telecommunications
      Standardization Sector (ITU-T) effort to include an MPLS Transport
      Profile within the IETF MPLS and PWE3 architectures to support the
      capabilities and functionalities of a packet transport network as
      defined by the ITU-T.

  "Support of fragmentation of RADIUS packets", Alejandro Perez-Mendez,
  Rafael Lopez, Fernando Pereniguez-Garcia, Gabriel Lopez-Millan, Diego
  Lopez, Alan DeKok, 2013-07-01,
  <draft-perez-radext-radius-fragmentation-06.txt>

      The Remote Authentication Dial-In User Service (RADIUS) protocol is
      limited to a total packet size of 4096 octets.  Provisions exist for
      fragmenting large amounts of authentication data across multiple
      packets, via Access-Challenge.  No similar provisions exist for
      fragmenting large amounts of authorization data.  This document
      specifies how existing RADIUS mechanisms can be leveraged to provide
      that functionality.  These mechanisms are largely compatible with
      existing implementations, and are designed to be invisible to
      proxies, and "fail-safe" to legacy clients and servers.

  "Multicast Geo-Distribution Control", Huajin Jeng, Jeffrey Haas, Yakov
  Rekhter, Jeffrey Zhang, 2013-07-14,
  <draft-rekhter-geo-distribution-control-03.txt>

      Consider a content provider that wants to deliver a particular
      content to a set of customers/subscribers, where the provider and the
      subscribers are connected by an IP service provider.  This document
      covers two areas needed to accomplish this:

  "Miscellaneous CoAP Group Communication Topics", Esko Dijk, Akbar
  Rahman, 2013-06-17, <draft-dijk-core-groupcomm-misc-04.txt>

      This document contains miscellaneous text around the topic of group
      communication for the Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP).  The
      first part contains, for reference, text that was removed from the WG
      version of Group Communication for CoAP draft.  The second part
      describes group communication and multicast functionality that may be
      input to future standardization in the CoRE WG.

  "RTCP message for Receiver Estimated Maximum Bitrate", Harald
  Alvestrand, 2013-10-21, <draft-alvestrand-rmcat-remb-03.txt>

      This document proposes an RTCP message for use in experimentally-
      deployed congestion control algorithms for RTP-based media flows.
      
      It also describes an absolute-value timestamp option for use in
      bandwidth estimatoin.

  "Overlay Path Option for IP and TCP", Brandon Williams, 2013-06-19,
  <draft-williams-overlaypath-ip-tcp-rfc-04.txt>

      Data transport through overlay networks often uses either connection
      termination or network address translation (NAT) in such a way that
      the public IP addresses of the true endpoint machines involved in the
      data transport are invisible to each other.  This document describes
      IPv4, IPv6, and TCP options for communicating this information from
      the overlay network to the endpoint machines.

  "A PMIPv6-based solution for Distributed Mobility Management", Carlos
  Bernardos, Antonio de la Oliva, Fabio Giust, 2013-07-11,
  <draft-bernardos-dmm-pmip-02.txt>

      The number of mobile users and their traffic demand is expected to be
      ever-increasing in future years, and this growth can represent a
      limitation for deploying current mobility management schemes that are
      intrinsically centralized, e.g., Mobile IPv6 and Proxy Mobile IPv6.
      For this reason it has been waved a need for distributed and dynamic
      mobility management approaches, with the objective of reducing
      operators' burdens, evolving to a cheaper and more efficient
      architecture.
      
      This draft describes multiple solutions for network-based distributed
      mobility management inspired by the well known Proxy Mobile IPv6.

  "Unified User-Agent String (UUAS)", Mateusz Karcz, 2012-01-27,
  <draft-karcz-uuas-00.txt>

      User-Agent is a header used by certain protocols, e.g. HTTP. Unified
      User-Agent String is intended to unification of that complicated
      strings.

  "Text Encodings of PKIX and CMS Structures", Simon Josefsson, Sean
  Leonard, 2013-10-21, <draft-josefsson-pkix-textual-02.txt>

      This document describes and discuss the text encodings of Public-Key
      Infrastructure using X.509 (PKIX) Certificates, PKIX Certificate
      Revocation Lists (CRLs), PKCS #10 Certification Request Syntax, PKCS
      #7 structures, Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS), PKCS #8 Private-
      Key Information Syntax, and Attribute Certificates.  The text
      encodings are well-known, are implemented by several applications and
      libraries, and are widely deployed.  This document is intended to
      articulate the de-facto rules that existing implementations operate
      by, and to give recommendations that will promote interoperability
      going forward.

  "Problem Statement of SAVI Beyond the First Hop", Jun Bi, Bingyang Liu,
  2013-05-27, <draft-bi-savi-problem-05.txt>

      IETF Source Address Validation Improvements (SAVI) working group is
      chartered for source address validation within the first hop from the
      end hosts, i.e. preventing a node from spoofing the IP source address
      of another node in the same IP link.  However, since SAVI requires
      the edge routers or switches to be upgraded, the deployment of SAVI
      will need a long time.  During this transition period, some source
      address validation techniques beyond the first hop (SAVI-BF) may be
      needed to complement SAVI and protect the networks from spoofing
      based attacks.  In this document, we first propose three desired
      features of the SAVI-BF techniques.  Then we analyze the problems of
      the current SAVI-BF technique, ingress filtering.  Finally, we
      discuss the directions that we can explore to improve SAVI-BF.

  "Definitions of Managed Objects for 4rd", Yu Fu, Sheng Jiang, Bing Liu,
  2013-08-12, <draft-fu-softwire-4rd-mib-03.txt>

      This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
      for use with network management protocols in the Internet community.
      In particular, it defines managed objects for 4rd.

  "Reducing Power Consumption using BGP", Shankar Raman, Balaji Venkat,
  Gaurav Raina, 2013-04-27, <draft-mjsraman-rtgwg-inter-as-psp-06.txt>

      In this paper, we propose a framework to reduce the aggregate power
      consumption of the Internet using a collaborative approach between
      Autonomous Systems (AS). We identify the low-power paths among the AS
      and then use Traffic Engineering (TE) techniques to route the packets
      along the paths. Such low-power paths can be identified by using the
      consumed-power-to-available-bandwidth (PWR) ratio as an additional
      constraint in the Constrained Shortest Path First (CSPF) algorithm.
      For re-routing the data traffic through these low-power paths, the
      Inter-AS Traffic Engineered Label Switched Path (TE-LSP) that spans
      multiple AS can be used. Extensions to the Border Gateway Protocol
      (BGP) can be used to disseminate the PWR ratio metric among the AS
      thereby creating a collaborative approach to reduce the power
      consumption. Since calculating the low-power paths can be
      computationally intensive, a graph-labeling heuristic is also
      proposed. This heuristic reduces the computational complexity but may
      provide a sub-optimal low-power path. The feasibility of our
      approaches is illustrated by applying our algorithm to a subset of
      the Internet. The techniques proposed in this paper for the Inter-AS
      power reduction require minimal modifications to the existing
      features of the Internet. The proposed techniques can be extended to
      other levels of Internet hierarchy, such as Intra-AS paths, through
      suitable modifications.

  "Cross Stratum Optimization enabled Path Computation", Dhruv Dhody,
  Young Lee, Nicola Ciulli, Luis Contreras, Oscar de Dios, 2013-08-27,
  <draft-dhody-pce-cso-enabled-path-computation-04.txt>

      Applications like cloud computing, video gaming, HD Video streaming,
      Live Concerts, Remote Medical Surgery, etc are offered by Data
      Centers.  These data centers are geographically distributed and
      connected via a network.  Many decisions are made in the Application
      space without any concern of the underlying network.  Cross stratum
      application/network optimization focus on the challenges and
      opportunities presented by data center based applications and
      carriers networks together [CSO-DATACNTR].
      
      Constraint-based path computation is a fundamental building block for
      traffic engineering systems such as Multiprotocol Label Switching
      (MPLS) and Generalized Multiprotocol Label Switching (GMPLS)
      networks.  [RFC4655] explains the architecture for a Path Computation
      Element (PCE)-based model to address this problem space.
      
      This document explains the architecture for CSO enabled Path
      Computation.

  "Conditional observe in CoAP", Shitao Li, Jeroen Hoebeke, Floris Van den
  Abeele, Antonio Jara, 2013-06-23,
  <draft-li-core-conditional-observe-04.txt>

      CoAP is a RESTful application protocol for constrained nodes and
      networks.  Through the Observe option, clients can observe changes in
      the state of resources and obtain a current representation of the
      last resource state.  This document defines a new mechanism in CoAP
      Observe so that a CoAP client can conditionally observe a resource on
      a CoAP server, only being informed about state changes meeting a
      specific condition or set of conditions.  This offers possibilities
      to extend network intelligence, enhance scalability, and optimize the
      lifetime and performance in order to address the requirements from
      the Constrained Nodes and Networks.

  "Tunneling Compressed Multiplexed Traffic Flows (TCM-TF)", Jose Saldana,
  Dan Wing, Julian Navajas, Muthu Perumal, Fernando Blanco, 2013-07-11,
  <draft-saldana-tsvwg-tcmtf-05.txt,.pdf>

      Tunneling Compressed and Multiplexed Traffic Flows (TCM-TF) is a
      method for improving the bandwidth utilization of network segments
      that carry multiple flows in parallel sharing a common path.  The
      method combines standard protocols for header compression,
      multiplexing, and tunneling over a network path for the purpose of
      reducing the bandwidth used when multiple flows are carried over that
      path.  The amount of packets per second can also be reduced.
      
      This document describes the TCM-TF framework and the different
      options which can be used for each layer (header compression,
      multiplexing and tunneling).

  "SNMPD to use cache and shared database based on MIB Classification",
  Haresh Khandelwal, 2012-03-29,
  <draft-haresh-sushrut-mib-classification-01.txt>

      This memo defines classification of SNMP MIBs to either use SNMP
      cache database and shared database (SDB) mechanism to reduce high CPU
      usage while SNMP GET REQUEST, GETNEXT REQUEST, GETBULK REQUEST are
      continuously performed from network management system (NMS)/SNMP
      manager/SNMP MIB browser to managed device.

  "Default Nickname Based Approach for Multilevel TRILL", Tissa
  Senevirathne, Les Ginsberg, Sam Aldrin, Ayan Banerjee, 2013-05-28,
  <draft-tissa-trill-multilevel-02.txt>

      Multilevel TRILL allows the interconnection of multiple TRILL
      networks to form a larger TRILL network without proportionally
      increasing the size of the IS-IS LSP DB. In this document, an
      approach based on default route concept is presented. Also,
      presented in the document is a novel method of constructing multi-
      destination trees using partial nickname space. Methods presented in
      this document are compatible with the RFC6325 specified data plane
      operations.

  "Pro-active connectivity monitoring for TRILL", Rohit Watve, Tissa
  Senevirathne, Chandan Mishra, Gayatri Ramachandran, 2013-09-18,
  <draft-rohit-trill-proactive-oam-03.txt>

      Pro-active fault monitoring for TRILL monitors all the paths between
      any two given RBridges in the network. Number of paths to be
      monitored can be of exponential order based on the distance between
      two RBridges. In this document novel fault monitoring mechanism
      based on a distributed approach is presented.

  "RTP Payload Format for High Efficiency Video Coding", Thomas Schierl,
  Stephan Wenger, Ye-Kui Wang, Miska Hannuksela, Yago Sanchez, 2013-06-11,
  <draft-schierl-payload-rtp-h265-03.txt>

      This memo describes an RTP payload format for the video coding
      standard  ITU-T  Recommendation  H.265  and  ISO/IEC  International
      Standard 23008-2, both also known as High Efficiency Video Coding
      (HEVC) [HEVC], developed by the Joint Collaborative Team on Video
      Coding (JCT-VC).  The RTP payload format allows for packetization of
      one or more Network Abstraction Layer (NAL) units in each RTP packet
      payload, as well as fragmentation of a NAL unit into multiple RTP
      packets.  Furthermore, it supports transmission of an HEVC stream
      over a single as well as multiple RTP flows.  The payload format has
      wide applicability in videoconferencing, Internet video streaming,
      and high bit-rate entertainment-quality video, among others.

  "CoAP Option Extension: Patience", Kepeng Li, Bert Greevenbosch, Esko
  Dijk, Salvatore Loreto, 2013-04-23,
  <draft-li-core-coap-patience-option-02.txt>

      CoAP is a RESTful application protocol for constrained nodes and
      networks.  This specification provides a simple extension for CoAP,
      the Patience option.  This option informs a recipient of the
      preferred time frame for a request or response depending on usage
      context.  In a unicast request, it indicates the patience a client
      has in waiting for a response.  The CoAP server tries to return the
      response within the specified time frame.  In a multicast request, it
      indicates the patience a server should have in sending its response.
      The recipient would then try to randomly delay its response within
      the time frame that the requester indicated or computed by the
      recipient itself.  In a CoAP observe notification, it indicates the
      patience an observer should have in both waiting for a subsequent
      notification and in re-establishing an observation relation.

  "PCP Server Discovery with IPv4 traffic offload for Proxy Mobile IPv6",
  Tirumaleswar Reddy, Prashanth Patil, Ravikumar Chandrasekaran, Dan Wing,
  2013-08-14, <draft-rpcw-pcp-pmipv6-serv-discovery-03.txt>

      This document proposes a solution to PCP Server Discovery problems in
      Proxy Mobile IPv6 (PMIPv6) networks when both home network traffic
      and traffic off-loaded to local access network require traversing a
      gateway implementing NAT and/or Firewall.  This draft proposes
      enhancements to DHCPv4 Relay Agent by introducing a new sub-option
      under DHCPv4 Relay Option and to PMIPv6 signaling through additional
      options to Proxy Binding Update/Acknowledgement messages.

  "End-to-End Object Encryption and Signatures for the Extensible
  Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP)", Matthew Miller, 2013-06-13,
  <draft-miller-xmpp-e2e-06.txt>

      This document defines two methods for securing objects (often
      referred to as stanzas) for the Extensible Messaging and Presence
      Protocol (XMPP), which allows for efficient asynchronous
      communication between two entities, each with might have multiple
      devices operating simultaneously.  One is a method to encrypt stanzas
      to provide confidentiality protection; another is a method to sign
      stanzas to provide authentication and integrity protection.  This
      document also defines a related protocol for entities to request the
      ephemeral session keys in use.

  "A Stateless Transport Tunneling Protocol for Network Virtualization
  (STT)", Bruce Davie, Jesse Gross, 2013-09-10, <draft-davie-stt-04.txt>

      Network Virtualization places unique requirements on tunneling
      protocols.  This draft describes STT (Stateless Transport Tunneling),
      a tunnel encapsulation that enables overlay networks to be built in
      virtualized networks.  STT is particularly useful when some tunnel
      endpoints are in end-systems, as it utilizes the capabilities of the
      network interface card to improve performance.

  "Representing Label Generation Rulesets using XML", Kim Davies, Asmus
  Freytag, 2013-09-23, <draft-davies-idntables-04.txt>

      This memo describes a method of representing the domain name
      registration policy for a zone administrator using Extensible Markup
      Language (XML).  These policies, known as "Label Generation Rulesets"
      (LGRs), are particularly used for the implementation of
      Internationalised Domain Names (IDNs).  The rulesets are used to
      implement and share policy on which specific Unicode code points are
      permitted for registrations, which alternative code points are
      considered variants, and what actions may be performed on those
      variants.

  "LDP Extensions for Lock Instruct and Loopback of Pseudowire in MPLS
  Transport Profile", Jie Dong, Mach Chen, Greg Mirsky, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-dong-pwe3-mpls-tp-li-lb-05.txt>

      This document specifies extensions to the Label Distribution Protocol
      (LDP) to support provisioning of lock instruct (LI) and loopback (LB)
      mechanism for MPLS Transport Profile (MPLS-TP) pseudowires (PWs).

  "IGMP/MLD Optimizations in Wireless and Mobile Networks", Hui Liu, Mike
  McBride, Hitoshi Asaeda, 2013-07-02,
  <draft-liu-multimob-igmp-mld-wireless-mobile-04.txt>

      This document proposes a variety of optimization approaches for IGMP
      and MLD in wireless and mobile networks.  It aims to provide useful
      guidelines to allow efficient multicast communication in these
      networks using IGMP or MLD protocols.

  "Analysis of Algorithms For Deriving Port Sets", Tina Tsou, Tetsuya
  Murakami, Simon Perreault, 2013-05-17,
  <draft-tsou-softwire-port-set-algorithms-analysis-04.txt>

      This memo analyzes some port set definition algorithms used for
      stateless IPv4 to IPv6 transition technologies.  The transition
      technologies using port set algorithms can be divided into two
      categories: fully stateless approach and binding approach.  Some
      algorithms can work for both approaches.

  "IANA Registry for RTCWeb Constrainable Properties", Daniel Burnett,
  2013-10-20, <draft-burnett-rtcweb-constraints-registry-04.txt,.pdf>

      Specifications in W3C's Media Capture Task Force and WebRTC Working
      Group have need of a registry in which to maintain a list of
      constrainable properties for HTML media and other constrainable
      objects.  This document defines this registry.

  "PMIPv6-based Distributed Mobility Management", Jaehwoon Lee,
  2013-06-11, <draft-jaehwoon-dmm-pmipv6-01.txt>

      Proxy Mobile IPv6 (PMIPv6) is the network-based mobility management
      protocol where access network supports the mobility of a mobile node
      on behalf of the MN. In PMIPv6, the location information of the MN
      should be registered to Localized Mobility Anchor and communication
      must be established via the LMA. Therefore, the performance can be
      degraded due to traffic concentration and congestion possibility.
      One method to overcome the above problems is to exploit the
      distributed mobility management (DMM) mechanism to distribute the
      LMA function to all access routers within the PMIPv6 domain. This
      letter proposes the fully distributed mobility management mechanism
      in PMIPv6-based network. In this mechanism, there is no need for
      the location management function to register the location of the MN.
      Therefore, the performance is not degraded due to the overhead to
      query the location of the MN.

  "Super-Channel Optical Parameters GMPLS Signaling Extensions", Iftekhar
  Hussain, Vinayak Dangui, Michael VanLeeuwen, Marco Sosa, 2013-10-08,
  <draft-hussain-ccamp-super-channel-param-sig-03.txt>

      This document builds on [6][7] and defines GMPLS signaling
      extensions to carry super-channel optical parameters for efficient
      spectrum assignment on flexible grid networks.

  "Super-Channel Optical Parameters GMPLS Routing Extensions", Iftekhar
  Hussain, Marco Sosa, 2013-10-08,
  <draft-hussain-ccamp-super-channel-param-ospfte-03.txt>

      This document builds on [6][7] and defines GMPLS routing extensions
      to allow added CSPF constraints for efficient super-channel spectrum
      assignment on flexible grid networks.

  "Scaling the Address Resolution Protocol for Large Data Centers (SARP)",
  Youval Nachum, Linda Dunbar, Ilan Yerushalmi, Tal Mizrahi, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-nachum-sarp-06.txt>

      This document introduces SARP, an architecture that uses proxy
      gateways to scale large data center networks. SARP is based on
      fast proxies that significantly reduce switches' FDB (MAC table)
      sizes and ARP/ND impact on network elements in an environment
      where hosts within one subnet (or VLAN) can spread over various
      locations. SARP is targeted for massive data centers with a
      significant number of VMs that can move across various physical
      locations.

  "Local Prefix Lifetime Management for Proxy Mobile IPv6", Jouni
  Korhonen, Teemu Savolainen, Sri Gundavelli, 2013-07-29,
  <draft-korhonen-dmm-local-prefix-01.txt>

      This specification defines a protocol extension to Proxy Mobile IPv6
      that enables prefix lifetime management for locally assigned prefixes
      within a Proxy Mobile IPv6 domain.  A locally assigned prefix is
      managed by a Mobile Access Gateway and is always topologically
      anchored to the Mobile Access Gateway within the Proxy Mobile IPv6
      domain.

  "PMIP Based DMM Approaches", Wen Luo, Juan Liu, 2013-07-29,
  <draft-luo-dmm-pmip-based-dmm-approach-02.txt>

      Proxy Mobile IPv6 (PMIPv6) is standardized by IETF to supply mobility
      management for mobile nodes (MN).  For supporting Distributed
      Mobility Management based on current PMIP standard, enhanced Proxy
      Mobile IPv6 (ePMIP) with two new logic functions is introduced. (1)
      Location Management Function (LMF), (2) Distributed Anchoring
      Function (DAF), including Distributed Routing sub-Function (DRF) and
      Distributed Mobility sub-Function (DMF).  Basic signalling procedures
      and considerations are also described in this document.

  "Applicability of Stateful Path Computation Element (PCE)", Xian Zhang,
  Ina Minei, 2013-05-25, <draft-zhang-pce-stateful-pce-app-04.txt>

      A stateful Path Computation Element (PCE) maintains information about
      Label Switched Path (LSP) characteristics and resource usage within a
      network in order to provide traffic engineering calculations for its
      associated Path Computation Clients (PCCs).  This document describes
      general considerations for a stateful PCE deployment and examines its
      applicability and benefits through a number of use cases.  Path
      Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) extensions required for stateful
      PCE usage are covered in separate documents.

  "Analysis of Port Control Protocol in Mobile Network", Gang Chen, Zhen
  Cao, Mohamed Boucadair, Vizdal Ales, Laurent Thiebaut, 2013-07-13,
  <draft-chen-pcp-mobile-deployment-04.txt>

      This memo provides a motivation description for the Port Control
      Protocol (PCP) deployment in a 3GPP mobile network environment.  The
      document focuses on a mobile network specific issues (e.g. cell phone
      battery power consumption, keep-alive traffic reduction), PCP
      applicability to these issues is further studied and analyzed.

  "PMIPv6-based distributed anchoring", Carlos Bernardos, Juan-Carlos
  Ziga, 2013-10-09, <draft-bernardos-dmm-distributed-anchoring-03.txt>

      Distributed Mobility Management solutions allow for setting up
      networks so that traffic is distributed in an optimal way and does
      not rely on centralized deployed anchors to provide IP mobility
      support.
      
      There are many different approaches to address Distributed Mobility
      Management, as for example extending network-based mobility protocols
      (like Proxy Mobile IPv6), or client-based mobility protocols (as
      Mobile IPv6), among others.  This document follows the former
      approach, and proposes a solution based on Proxy Mobile IPv6 in which
      mobility sessions are anchored at the last IP hop router (called
      distributed gateway).  The distributed gateway is an enhanced access
      router which is also able to operate as local mobility anchor or
      mobility access gateway, on a per prefix basis.  The draft focuses on
      the required extensions to effectively support simultaneously
      anchoring several flows at different distributed gateways.
      
      This draft introduces the concept of distributed logical interface
      (at the distributed gateway), which is a software construct that
      allows to easily hide the change of anchor from the mobile node.
      Additionally, the draft describes how to provide session continuity
      in inter-domain scenarios in which dynamic tunneling or signaling
      between distributed gateways from different operators is not allowed.

  "Building power shortest inter-Area TE LSPs using pre-computed paths",
  Shankar Raman, Balaji Venkat, Gaurav Raina, 2013-05-04,
  <draft-mjsraman-rtgwg-intra-as-psp-te-leak-03.txt>

      In this paper, we propose a framework to reduce the aggregate power
      consumption of an Autonomous System (AS) using a collaborative
      approach between areas within an AS. We identify the low-power paths
      within non-backbone areas and then use Traffic Engineering (TE)
      techniques to route the packets along the stitched paths from non-
      backbone areas / backbone area to other non-backbone areas. Such low-
      power paths can be identified by using the power-to-available-
      bandwidth (PWR) ratio as an additional constraint in the Constrained
      Shortest Path First (CSPF) algorithm. For routing the data traffic
      through these low-power paths, the Inter-Area Traffic Engineered
      Label Switched Path (TE-LSP) that spans multiple areas can be used.
      Extensions to the Interior Gateway Protocols like OSPF and IS-IS that
      support TE extensions can be used to disseminate information about
      low-power paths in the respective areas (backbone or non-backbone)
      that minimize the PWR ratio metric on the links within the areas and
      between the areas thereby creating a collaborative approach to reduce
      the power consumption.
      
      The feasibility of our approaches is illustrated by applying our
      algorithm to an AS with a backbone area and several non-backbone
      areas. The techniques proposed in this paper for the Inter-Area power
      reduced paths require a few modifications to the existing features of
      the IGPs supporting TE extensions. The proposed techniques can be
      extended to other levels of Internet hierarchy, such as Inter-AS
      paths, through suitable modifications as in [11].
      
      When link state routing protocols like OSPF or ISIS are used to
      discover TE topology, there is the limitation that traffic engineered
      paths can be set up only when the head and tail end of the label
      switched path are in the same area. There are solutions to overcome
      this limitation either using offline Path Computation Engine (PCE)
      that attach to multiple areas and know the topology of all areas.
      This document proposes an alternative approach that does not require
      any centralized PCE and uses selective leaking of low-power TE path
      information from one area into other areas.

  "More Raw Public Keys for IKEv2", Tero Kivinen, Paul Wouters, Hannes
  Tschofenig, 2013-10-18, <draft-kivinen-ipsecme-oob-pubkey-05.txt>

      The Internet Key Exchange Version 2 (IKEv2) protocol currently only
      supports raw RSA keys.  In some environments it is useful to make use
      of other types of public keys, such as those based on Elliptic Curve
      Cryptography.  This documents adds support for other types of raw
      public keys to IKEv2.

  "Accessing Cloud Services", Yaakov Stein, Yuri Gittik, Daniel Kofman,
  Konstantinos Katsaros, Monique Morrow, Luyuan Fang, Wim Henderickx,
  2013-07-04, <draft-stein-cloud-access-03.txt>

      Cloud services are revolutionizing the way computational resources
      are provided, but at the expense of requiring an even more
      revolutionary overhaul of the networking infrastructure needed to
      deliver them.  Much recent work has focused on intra- and inter-
      datacenter connectivity requirements and architectures, while the
      "access segment" connecting the cloud services user to the datacenter
      still needs to be addressed.  In this draft we consider tighter
      integration between the network and the datacenter, in order to
      improve end-to-end Quality of Experience, while minimizing both
      networking and computational resource costs.

  "An Architecture for Multicast Protection Using Maximally Redundant
  Trees", Alia Atlas, Robert Kebler, IJsbrand Wijnands, Andras Csaszar,
  Gabor Envedi, 2013-07-12, <draft-atlas-rtgwg-mrt-mc-arch-02.txt>

      Failure protection is desirable for multicast traffic, whether
      signaled via PIM or mLDP.  Different mechanisms are suitable for
      different use-cases and deployment scenarios.  This document
      describes the architecture for global protection (aka multicast live-
      live) and for local protection (aka fast-reroute).
      
      The general methods for global protection and local protection using
      alternate-trees are dependent upon the use of Maximally Redundant
      Trees.  Local protection can also tunnel traffic in unicast tunnels
      to take advantage of the routing and fast-reroute mechanisms
      available for IP/LDP unicast destinations.
      
      The failures protected against are single link or node failures.
      While the basic architecture might support protection against shared
      risk group failures, algorithms to dynamically compute MRTs
      supporting this are for future study.

  "Receiver-Driven Multicast Traffic-Engineered Label-Switched Paths",
  Renwei Li, Quintin Zhao, Christian Jacquenet, Eduard Metz, Telus
  Communications, 2013-06-30,
  <draft-lzj-mpls-receiver-driven-multicast-rsvp-te-03.txt>

      This document describes extensions to Resource Reservation Protocol -
      Traffic Engineering (RSVP-TE) for the setup of Receiver-Driven
      Traffic-Engineered point-to-multipoint (P2MP) and multipoint-to-
      multipoint (MP2MP)Label Switched Paths (LSPs) in Multi-Protocol Label
      Switching (MPLS) and Generalized MPLS (GMPLS)networks.

  "MAC Address Withdrawal over Static Pseudowire", Siva Sivabalan, Sami
  Boutros, Himanshu Shah, 2013-09-30,
  <draft-boutros-l2vpn-mpls-tp-mac-wd-02.txt>

      This document specifies a mechanism to signal MAC address withdrawal
      notification using PW Associated Channel (ACH).  Such notification is
      useful when statically provisioned PWs are deployed in VPLS/H-VPLS
      environment.

  "The Applicability of the PCE to Computing Protection and Recovery Paths
  for Single Domain and Multi-Domain Networks.", Huaimo Chen, Dhruv Dhody,
  2013-10-21, <draft-chen-pce-protection-applicability-04.txt>

      The Path Computation Element (PCE) provides path computation
      functions in support of traffic engineering in Multiprotocol Label
      Switching (MPLS) and Generalized MPLS (GMPLS) networks.
      
      A link or node failure can significantly impact network services in
      large-scale networks.  Therefore it is important to ensure the
      survivability of large scale networks which consist of various
      connections provided over multiple interconnected networks with
      varying technologies.
      
      This document examines the applicability of the PCE architecture,
      protocols, and procedures for computing protection paths and
      restoration services, for single and multi-domain networks.
      
      This document also explains the mechanism of Fast Re-Route (FRR)
      where a point of local repair (PLR) needs to find the appropriate
      merge point (MP) to do bypass path computation using PCE.

  "RSVP Setup Protection", Yimin Shen, Yuji Kamite, Eric Osborne,
  2013-06-28, <draft-shen-mpls-rsvp-setup-protection-03.txt>

      RFC 4090 specifies an RSVP facility-backup fast reroute mechanism for
      protecting LSPs against link and node failures.  This document
      extends the mechanism to provide so-called "setup protection" for
      LSPs during their initial Path message signaling time.  In
      particular, it enables a router to reroute an LSP via an existing
      bypass LSP, when there is a failure of the immediate downstream link
      or node along the desired path.  Therefore, it can be used to avoid
      LSP signaling failure and reduce setup time in such kind of
      situation, and allow an LSP to be established temporarily over a
      bypass LSP when an alternative path can only be resolved at a much
      later time.

  "Deployment Considerations for Lightweight 4over6", Qiong, Chongfeng
  Xie, Yiu Lee, Maoke Chen, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-sun-softwire-lightweigh-4over6-deployment-04.txt>

      Lightweight 4over6 is a mechanism which moves the translation
      function from tunnel lwAFTR (AFTR) to lwB4s (B4s), and hence reduces
      the mapping scale on the lwAFTR to per-customer level.  This document
      discusses various deployment models of Lightweight 4over6.  It also
      describes the deployment considerations and applicability of the
      Lightweight 4over6 architecture.

  "Path Computation Element (PCE) Database Requirements", Olivier Dugeon,
  Julien Meuric, Richard Douville, Ramon Casellas, Oscar de Dios,
  2013-07-15, <draft-dugeon-pce-ted-reqs-02.txt>

      The Path Computation Element (PCE) working group (WG) has produced a
      set of RFCs to standardize the behavior of the Path Computation
      Element as a tool to help MPLS-TE and GMPLS LSP tunnels placement.
      In the PCE architecture, a main assumption has been done concerning
      the information that the PCE needs to perform its computation.  In a
      fist approach, the PCE embeds a Traffic Engineering Database (TED)
      containing all pertinent and suitable information regarding the
      network that is in the scope of a PCE.  Nevertheless, the TED
      requirements as well as the TED information have not yet been
      formalized.  In addition, some recent RFC (like the Backward
      Recursive Path Computation procedure or PCE Hierarchy) or WG draft
      (like draft-ietf-pce-stateful-pce ...) suffer from a lack of
      information in the TED, leading to a non optimal result or to some
      difficulties to deploy them.  This memo tries to identify some
      Database, at large, requirements for the PCE.  It is split in two
      main sections: the identification of the specific information to be
      stored in the PCE Database and how it may be populated.

  "Mobility API Extension for Distributed Mobility Management", Dapeng
  Liu, Hui Deng, 2013-07-07, <draft-liu-dmm-mobility-api-01.txt>

      [RFC5014] specifies extension to socket API to allow application to
      specify the preference among multiple source addresses.
      [I-D.draft-korhonen-6man-prfix-properties] and
      [I-D.draft-bhandari-dhc-class-based-prefix-04] propose to extend
      router advertisment to carry the prefix property and class
      information.  The mobile node can learn the prefix property and class
      information from the router advertisment message.  This document
      proposes an extension to [RFC5014] to enable the application to
      select the distributed mobility management related prefixes.

  "Requirements for Message Access Control", Trevor Freeman, Jim Schaad,
  Patrick Patterson, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-freeman-plasma-requirements-08.txt>

      There are many situations where organizations want to protect
      information with robust access control, either for implementation of
      intellectual property right protections, enforcement of contractual
      confidentiality agreements or because of legal regulations.  The
      Enhanced Security Services (ESS) for S/MIME defines an access control
      mechanism for email which is enforced by the recipient's client after
      decryption of the message. The ESS mechanism therefore is dependent
      on the correct access policy configuration of every recipient's
      client. This mechanism also provides full access to the data to all
      recipients prior to the access control check, which is considered to
      be inadequate for robust access control due to the difficulty in
      demonstrating policy compliance.
      
      This document lays out the deficiencies of the current ESS security
      label, and presents requirements for a new model for providing access
      control to messages where the access check is performed prior to
      message content decryption. This new model also does not require
      policy configuration on the client thereby simplifying deployment and
      compliance verification.
      
      The proposed model additionally provides a method where non-X.509
      certificate credentials can be used for encryption/decryption of
      S/MIME messages.
      
      The name Plasma was assigned to this effort as part of the IETF
      process. It is derived from PoLicy enhAnced Secure eMAil.

  "Diameter AVP Level Security: Keyed Message Digests, Digital Signatures,
  and Encryption", Jouni Korhonen, Hannes Tschofenig, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-korhonen-dime-e2e-security-02.txt>

      This document defines an extension for end to end authentication,
      integrity and confidentiality protection of Diameter Attribute Value
      Pairs.  The solutions focuses on protecting Diameter Attribute Value
      Pairs and leaves the key distribution solution to a separate
      specification.  The integrity protection can be introduced in a
      backward compatible manner to existing application.  The
      confidentiality protection requires an explicit support from an
      application, thus is applicable only for newly defined applications.
      
      Terminology

  "Private Enterprise Number (PEN) practices and Internet Assigned Numbers
  Authority (IANA) registration considerations", Pearl Liang, Alexey
  Melnikov, 2013-10-18, <draft-liang-iana-pen-02.txt>

      Private Enterprise Numbers (PENs), are assigned as part of the
      technical protocol parameters and are frequently used in the
      management of network connected equipment or software via SNMP-based
      network management systems, LDAP, DIAMETER or GSS-API.  This document
      discusses what a Private Enterprise Number (PEN) is, common uses and
      registration procedures for IANA Considerations.  The registration
      procedures include instructions and requirement for obtaining a new
      Private Enterprise Number, modification to existing numbers and
      removal of existing numbers.

  "CUSAX: Combined Use of the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and the
  Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP)", Emil Ivov, Peter
  Saint-Andre, Enrico Marocco, 2013-10-01, <draft-ivov-xmpp-cusax-09.txt>

      This document suggests some strategies for the combined use of the
      Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and the Extensible Messaging and
      Presence Protocol (XMPP) both in user-oriented clients and in
      deployed servers.  Such strategies, which mainly consist of
      configuration changes and minimal software modifications to existing
      clients and servers, aim to provide a single, full-featured, real-
      time communication service by using complementary subsets of features
      from SIP and from XMPP.  Typically such subsets consist of telephony
      capabilities from SIP and instant messaging and presence capabilities
      from XMPP.  This document does not define any new protocols or syntax
      for either SIP or XMPP, and by intent does not attempt to standardize
      "best current practices".  Instead, it merely aims to provide
      practical guidance to those who are interested in the combined use of
      SIP and XMPP for real-time communication.

  "Include Routes - Extension to Resource ReserVation Protocol-Traffic
  Engineering (RSVP-TE)", Zafar Ali, George Swallow, Clarence Filsfils,
  Matt Hartley, Ori Gerstel, Kenji Kumaki, Ruediger Kunze, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ali-ccamp-rsvp-te-include-route-05.txt>

      There are scenarios that require two or more LSPs or segments of
      LSPs to follow same route in the network. This document specifies
      methods to communicate route inclusions along the loose hops during
      path setup using the Resource ReserVation Protocol-Traffic
      Engineering (RSVP-TE) protocol.

  "Resource ReserVation Protocol-Traffic Engineering (RSVP-TE) Extension
  for Signaling Objective Function and Metric Bound", Zafar Ali, George
  Swallow, Clarence Filsfils, Luyuan Fang, Kenji Kumaki, Ruediger Kunze,
  Daniele Ceccarelli, Xian Zhang, 2013-10-19,
  <draft-ali-ccamp-rc-objective-function-metric-bound-04.txt>

      In particular networks such as those used by financial
      institutions, network performance criteria such as latency are
      becoming critical to data path selection.  However cost is still an
      important consideration.  This leads to a situation where path
      calculation involves multiple metrics and more complex objective
      functions.
      
      When using GMPLS control plane, there are many scenarios in which a
      node may need to request a remote node to perform path computation
      or expansion, like for example multi-domain LSP setup, Generalized
      Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS) User-Network Interface (UNI)
      or simply the utilization of a loose ERO in intra domain signaling.
      In such cases, the node requesting for the setup of an LSP needs to
      convey the required objective function to the remote node, to
      enable it to perform route computation in the desired fashion.
      Similarly, there are cases the ingress needs to indicate a TE
      metric bound for a loose segment that is expanded by a remote node.
      
      This document defines extensions to the RSVP-TE Protocol to allow
      an ingress node to request the required objective function for the
      route computation, as well as a metric bound to influence route
      computation decisions at a remote node(s).

  "Service Distribution using OSPF", Padma Pillay-Esnault, Burjiz
  Pithawala, Derek Yeung, 2013-07-14,
  <draft-pillay-esnault-ospf-service-distribution-02.txt>

      The Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) protocol is used to carry data on
      behalf of other services using the Opaque Link State Advertisements.
      The protocol's flooding mechanism is well suited to cover the data
      propagation requirements of services such as Traffic Engineering.
      The current mechanism cannot scale for a large number of services nor
      satisfy some of their new set of requirements.  This document
      describes a new mechanism in OSPF to support service and data
      distribution for a large number of services, computation of preferred
      service access points and a controlled service data exchange.

  "Service Provider Wi-Fi Services Over Residential Architectures", Sri
  Gundavelli, Mark Grayson, Pierrick Seite, Yiu Lee, 2013-04-23,
  <draft-gundavelli-v6ops-community-wifi-svcs-06.txt>

      The tremendous growth in Wi-Fi technology adoption over the last
      decade has met the ultimate possible goal of 100% adoption rate.  All
      most every new mobile device is now equipped with IEEE 802.11-based
      wireless interface and with pre-configured policy to prefer Wi-Fi to
      cellular access.  Matching this evolution is every service provider's
      desire to offer Wi-Fi based broadband services; a new business
      opportunity even for fixed line operators.  Operators are exploring
      options to monetize their existing networks, most with nation-wide
      footprint, to build a high-speed Wi-Fi service that can be the basis
      for offering new wireless broadband services.  This document
      identifies the requirements for supporting these new Wi-Fi community
      services and the mobility tools which have been standardized in IETF
      that can be used for enabling these architectures.

  "NAT traversal for LISP", Vina Ermagan, Dino Farinacci, Darrel Lewis,
  Jesper Skriver, Fabio Maino, Chris White, 2013-10-01,
  <draft-ermagan-lisp-nat-traversal-04.txt>

      This document describes a mechanism for IPv4 NAT traversal for LISP
      tunnel routers (xTR) and LISP Mobile Nodes (LISP-MN) behind a NAT
      device.  A LISP device both detects the NAT and initializes its
      state.  Forwarding to the LISP device through a NAT is enabled by the
      LISP Re-encapsulating Tunnel Router (RTR) network element, which acts
      as an anchor point in the data plane, forwarding traffic from
      unmodified LISP devices through the NAT.

  "ALTO session for CDN Interconnection", Stephan Emile, Selim Ellouze,
  2013-10-15, <draft-stephan-cdni-alto-session-ext-04.txt>

      The selection of a downstream CDN by an upstream CDN is based on
      multi-dimensional criteria.  Various protocols, such as BGP or ALTO,
      may be used by a downstream CDN to expose content routing information
      and interconnection preferences to an upstream CDN.  The selection of
      such a protocol is premature as the WG, and especially the Footprint/
      Capabilities Design Team, is currently working on this topic.  So
      this draft does not promote the usage of the ALTO protocol for CDN
      interconnection.  It presents the limitations of the current ALTO
      protocol in the case it would be selected for CDN interconnection.
      It specifies the mechanism for controlling the session initialization
      and for limiting the information exchanged.  Then it discusses the
      need of incremental update and proposes to study the usage of Netconf
      /Yang to provide ALTO server with notifications.

  "DS-Lite Failure Detection and Failover", Tina Tsou, Brandon Li, Cathy
  Zhou, Jrgen Schnwlder, Reinaldo Penno, Mohamed Boucadair, 2013-06-16,
  <draft-tsou-softwire-bfd-ds-lite-05.txt>

      In DS-Lite, the tunnel is stateless, not associated with any state
      information, and the CGN function at the AFTR is stateful.
      Currently, there is no failure detection and failover mechanism for
      both stateless tunnel and stateful CGN function, which makes it
      difficult to manage and diagnose if there is a problem.  This draft
      analyzes the applicability of some of the possible solutions.

  "Domain Name Registration Data (DNRD) Objects Mapping", Francisco Arias,
  Gustavo Lozano, Shoji Noguchi, James Gould, Chethan Thippeswamy,
  2013-09-26, <draft-arias-noguchi-dnrd-objects-mapping-05.txt>

      This document specifies the format, contents and semantics of Domain
      Name Registration Data (DNRD) Escrow deposits for a Domain Name
      Registry.

  "TRILL: Edge Directory Assistance Mechanisms", Linda Dunbar, Donald
  Eastlake, Radia Perlman, Igor Gashinsky, Li Yizhou, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-dunbar-trill-scheme-for-directory-assist-06.txt>

      This document describes mechanisms for using directory server(s) to
      assist TRILL (Transparent Interconnection of Lots of Links) edge
      switches in reducing multi-destination traffic, particularly ARP/ND
      and unknown unicast flooding.

  "TFTP Windowsize Option", Patrick Masotta, 2013-05-15,
  <draft-masotta-tftpexts-windowsize-opt-07.txt>

      The Trivial File Transfer Protocol [1] is a simple, lock-step, file
      transfer protocol which allows a client to get or put a file onto a
      remote host.  One of its primary uses is the early stages of nodes 
      booting from a Local Area Network. TFTP has been always used because
      it is very simple to implement. However, the choice of a lock-step
      schema is not the most efficient for use on a LAN.
      
      This document describes a TFTP option which allows the client and
      server to negotiate a windowsize of consecutive blocks to send 
      as an alternative for replacing the single block lock-step schema. 
      The TFTP Option Extension mechanism is described in [2].

  "LISP-DDT Referral Internet Groper (RIG)", Dino Farinacci, Amit Jain,
  Isidor Kouvelas, Darrel Lewis, 2013-09-15,
  <draft-farinacci-lisp-rig-02.txt>

      A simple tool called the LISP-DDT Referral Internet Groper or 'rig'
      can be used to query the LISP-DDT hierarchy.  This draft describes
      how the 'rig' tool works.

  "LISP Traffic Engineering Use-Cases", Dino Farinacci, Parantap Lahiri,
  Michael Kowal, 2013-07-11, <draft-farinacci-lisp-te-03.txt>

      This document describes how LISP reencapsulating tunnels can be used
      for Traffic Engineering purposes.  The mechanisms described in this
      document require no LISP protocol changes but do introduce a new
      locator (RLOC) encoding.  The Traffic Engineering features provided
      by these LISP mechanisms can span intra-domain, inter-domain, or
      combination of both.

  "Power Based Topologies and TE-Shortest Power Paths in OSPF", Shankar
  Raman, Balaji Venkat, Gaurav Raina, Vasan Srini, 2013-04-27,
  <draft-mjsraman-rtgwg-ospf-power-topo-02.txt>

      In a Interior Gateway Protocol like OSPF (Open Shortest Path First)
      the computation of the Constrained shortest path to destinations is
      computed for an area say a backbone or a non-backbone area using the
      TE-metrics advertised in the area. With importance given to the
      reduction of power within a network it becomes important to provide a
      solution that reduces the power consumed amongst routers and links
      that make up the network (in this case an area or a collection of
      areas including the backbone and non-backbone areas). This proposal
      aims at providing such a solution by producing a power topology of
      the area / areas. This power topology is constructed by assigning
      metrics to links based on the power consumed by the linecards (and
      hence their respective ports in an indirect way) of adjacent routers
      that are interconnected by each such link.

  "CoRE Roadmap and Implementation Guide", Carsten Bormann, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-bormann-core-roadmap-05.txt>

      The CoRE set of protocols, in particular the CoAP protocol, is
      defined in draft-ietf-core-coap in conjunction with a number of
      specifications that are currently nearing completion.  There are also
      several dozen more individual Internet-Drafts in various states of
      development, with various levels of WG review and interest.
      
      Today, this is simply a bewildering array of documents.  Beyond the
      main four documents, it is hard to find relevant information and
      assess the status of proposals.  At the level of Internet-Drafts, the
      IETF has only adoption as a WG document to assign status - too crude
      an instrument to assess the level of development and standing for
      anyone who does not follow the daily proceedings of the WG.
      
      With a more long-term perspective, as additional drafts mature and
      existing specifications enter various levels of spec maintenance, the
      entirety of these specifications may become harder to understand,
      pose specific implementation problems, or be simply inconsistent.
      
      The present guide aims to provide a roadmap to these documents as
      well as provide specific advice how to use these specifications in
      combination.  In certain cases, it may provide clarifications or even
      corrections to the specifications referenced.
      
      This guide is intended as a continued work-in-progress, i.e. a long-
      lived Internet-Draft, to be updated whenever new information becomes
      available and new consensus on how to handle issues is formed.
      Similar to the ROHC implementation guide, RFC 4815, it might be
      published as an RFC at some future time later in the acceptance curve
      of the specifications.
      
      This document does not describe a new protocol or attempt to set a
      new standard of any kind - it mostly describes good practice in using
      the existing specifications, but it may also document emerging
      consensus where a correction needs to be made.
      
      (TODO: The present version does not completely cover the new
      Internet-Drafts submitted concurrently with it; it is to be updated
      by the start of IETF88.)

  "Reducing Power Consumption using BGP path selection", Shankar Raman,
  Balaji Venkat, Gaurav Raina, Vasan Srini, 2013-04-27,
  <draft-mjsraman-rtgwg-bgp-power-path-04.txt>

      In this paper, we propose a framework to reduce the aggregate power
      consumption of the Internet using a collaborative approach between
      Autonomous Systems (AS). We identify the low-power paths among the AS
      and then use suitable modifications to the BGP path selection
      algorithm to route the packets along the paths. Such low-power paths
      can be identified by using the consumed-power-to-available-bandwidth
      (PWR) ratio as an additional parameter in the BGP Path Selection
      Algorithm. For re-routing the data traffic through these low-power
      paths, the power based best path is selected and advertised as per
      the modified algorithm proposed in this document. Extensions to the
      Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) can be used to disseminate the PWR
      ratio metric among the AS thereby creating a collaborative approach
      to reduce the power consumption. The feasibility of our approaches is
      illustrated by applying our algorithm to a subset of the Internet.
      The techniques proposed in this paper for the Inter-AS power
      reduction require minimal modifications to the existing features of
      the Internet. The proposed techniques can be extended to other levels
      of Internet hierarchy, such as Intra-AS paths, through suitable
      modifications. A recent addition is the use of this method in AIGP
      domains and also the use of power source data in the calculation of
      low power paths using the BGP path selection algorithm.

  "LLN Fragment Forwarding and Recovery", Pascal Thubert, Jonathan Hui,
  2013-09-09, <draft-thubert-roll-forwarding-frags-02.txt>

      In order to be routed, a fragmented packet must be reassembled at
      every hop of a multihop link where lower layer fragmentation occurs.
      Considering that the IPv6 minimum MTU is 1280 bytes and that an an
      802.15.4 frame can have a payload limited to 74 bytes in the worst
      case, a packet might end up fragmented into as many as 18 fragments
      at the 6LoWPAN shim layer.  If a single one of those fragments is
      lost in transmission, all fragments must be resent, further
      contributing to the congestion that might have caused the initial
      packet loss.  This draft introduces a simple protocol to forward and
      recover individual fragments that might be lost over multiple hops
      between 6LoWPAN endpoints.

  "Multipart Content-Format Encoding for CoAP", Thomas Fossati,
  2013-10-14, <draft-fossati-core-multipart-ct-03.txt>

      This memo defines Multipart, an "anonymous" Content-Format that can
      be used to combine (even recursively) several different media types
      into a single CoAP message-body with minimal framing overhead.

  "vCard representation of resources", Ciny Joy, Cyrus Daboo, Mike
  Douglass, 2013-09-17, <draft-cal-resource-vcard-03.txt>

      This specification describes the vCard representation of resources.

  "A Uniform Resource Name (URN) Namespace for Eurosystem Messaging",
  Gunnar Dickfeld, 2013-09-11,
  <draft-bundesbank-eurosystem-namespace-02.txt>

      This document defines and registers with IANA a Uniform Resource Name
      (URN) namespace that is managed by Deutsche Bundesbank (member of
      ESCB) for usage within messages standardized by the Eurosystem.
      
      Discussion
      
      This draft version is submitted for formal urn-nid Expert Review
      according to the procedures specified in RFC 3406 for a Formal NID
      application.
      
      Comments should be sent to the urn-nid@ietf.org mailing list and
      copied to the document editors at the 'role' email address given in
      the Authors Section.

  "Definitions of Managed Objects for Network Address Translators (NAT)",
  Simon Perreault, Tina Tsou, Senthil Sivakumar, 2013-10-17,
  <draft-ietf-behave-nat-mib-09.txt>

      This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
      for devices implementing Network Address Translator (NAT) function.
      This MIB module may be used for monitoring of a device capable of NAT
      function.
      
      This document obsoletes RFC 4008.

  "Grazed and Lightweight Open Protocol (GaLOP), v. 1.0", Lukasz Ruminski,
  Michal Kutzner, Adrian Dymek, Szymon Kwiatkowski, Marcin Langa,
  2013-07-15, <draft-ruminski-homenet-galop-proto-07.txt>

      This informational memo specifies a Grazed and Lightweight Open
      Protocol (GaLOP), designed to exchange information within the
      Hackney project [HACKNEY]. The document describes messages'
      structures, defined message types used in the communication and
      standard connection scenarios.

  "Re-ECN: Adding Accountability for Causing Congestion to TCP/IP", Bob
  Briscoe, Arnaud Jacquet, Toby Moncaster, Alan Smith, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-briscoe-conex-re-ecn-tcp-02.txt>

      This document introduces re-ECN (re-inserted explicit congestion
      notification), which is intended to make a simple but far-reaching
      change to the Internet architecture.  The sender uses the IP header
      to reveal the congestion that it expects on the end-to-end path.  The
      protocol works by arranging an extended ECN field in each packet so
      that, as it crosses any interface in an internetwork, it will carry a
      truthful prediction of congestion on the remainder of its path.  It
      can be deployed incrementally around unmodified routers.  The purpose
      of this document is to specify the re-ECN protocol at the IP layer
      and to give guidelines on any consequent changes required to
      transport protocols.  It includes the changes required to TCP both as
      an example and as a specification.  It briefly gives examples of
      mechanisms that can use the protocol to ensure data sources respond
      sufficiently to congestion, but these are described more fully in a
      companion document.
      
      Note concerning Intended Status: If this draft were ever published as
      an RFC it would probably have historic status.  There is limited
      space in the IP header, so re-ECN had to compromise by requiring the
      receiver to be ECN-enabled otherwise the sender could not use re-ECN.
      Re-ECN was a precursor to chartering of the IETF's Congestion
      Exposure (ConEx) working group, but during chartering there were
      still too few ECN receivers enabled, therefore it was decided to
      pursue other compromises in order to fit a similar capability into
      the IP header.

  "Re-ECN: A Framework for adding Congestion Accountability to TCP/IP",
  Bob Briscoe, Arnaud Jacquet, Toby Moncaster, Alan Smith, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-briscoe-conex-re-ecn-motiv-02.txt>

      This document describes a framework for using a new protocol called
      re-ECN (re-inserted explicit congestion notification), which can be
      deployed incrementally around unmodified routers.  Re-ECN allows
      accurate congestion monitoring throughout the network thus enabling
      the upstream party at any trust boundary in the internetwork to be
      held responsible for the congestion they cause, or allow to be
      caused.  So, networks can introduce straightforward accountability
      for congestion and policing mechanisms for incoming traffic from end-
      customers or from neighbouring network domains.  As well as giving
      the motivation for re-ECN this document also gives examples of
      mechanisms that can use the protocol to ensure data sources respond
      correctly to congestion.  And it describes example mechanisms that
      ensure the dominant selfish strategy of both network domains and end-
      points will be to use the protocol honestly.
      
      Note concerning Intended Status: If this draft were ever published as
      an RFC it would probably have historic status.  There is limited
      space in the IP header, so re-ECN had to compromise by requiring the
      receiver to be ECN-enabled otherwise the sender could not use re-ECN.
      Re-ECN was a precursor to chartering of the IETF's Congestion
      Exposure (ConEx) working group, but during chartering there were
      still too few ECN receivers enabled, therefore it was decided to
      pursue other compromises in order to fit a similar capability into
      the IP header.

  "Adaptation Layer Fragmentation Indication", Carsten Bormann,
  2013-09-09, <draft-bormann-intarea-alfi-04.txt>

      IPv6 defines a minimum MTU of 1280 bytes.  Many link layers are more
      limited in the maximum size of packets they can communicate.  In
      order to enable the transport of IP packets that are too large for
      these link layers, typically their IP adaptation layers define a
      segmentation or fragmentation scheme to transport an IP packet in a
      sequence of multiple link layer packets.
      
      Often, adaption layer fragmentation schemes reduce some performance
      metric, such as the packet delivery probability.  Application or
      transport protocols may be able to reduce the maximum size of packets
      they send, e.g.  by transport layer segmentation or choice of
      application layer data object size, which may have less of a
      performance impact.  It would therefore be desirable for them to know
      about any adaptation layer fragmentation that is going on, so they
      can choose packet sizes that minimize adaptation layer fragmentation.
      
      At the IP layer, fragmentation can be detected using a number of
      mechanisms used in Packetization Layer Path MTU Discovery [RFC4821].
      However, adaptation layer fragmentation schemes are often designed to
      be "transparent", i.e.  there is no way at higher layers to find out
      whether they had to be employed (except maybe by elaborate
      measurement schemes targeting one of the impacted performance
      metrics; this approach does not appear to be viable) [WEI].
      
      The present specification defines two alternative mechanisms for IPv6
      adaptation layers to indicate the presence of adaptation layer
      fragmentation on one or more hops on the path from an IP sender to an
      IP receiver, and to provide an indication of preferred (smaller)
      packet sizes on these hops.
      
      One design is based on the the IPv6 design and probably doesn't work
      on the Internet.  The other design goes strictly against the IPv6
      design and probably works well on the Internet.
      
      Comments are appreciated and should go to the intarea@ietf.org
      mailing list.

  "July 9, 2013", Parag Jain, Sami Boutros, Sam Aldrin, 2013-07-09,
  <draft-jain-pwe3-p2mp-pw-lsp-ping-02.txt>

      LSP-Ping is a widely deployed Operation, Administration, and
      Maintenance (OAM) mechanism in MPLS networks. This document
      describes a mechanism to verify connectivity of Point-to-Multipoint
      (P2MP) Pseudowires (PW) using LSP Ping.

  "Home Documents for HTTP APIs", Mark Nottingham, 2013-05-08,
  <draft-nottingham-json-home-03.txt>

      This document proposes a "home document" format for non-browser HTTP
      clients.
      
      Note to Readers
      
      This draft should be discussed on the apps-discuss mailing list; see
      [apps-discuss].

  "SA46T Address Translator", Naoki Matsuhira, Katsuhiro Horiba, Yukito
  Ueno, Osamu Nakamura, 2013-08-14, <draft-matsuhira-sa46t-at-02.txt>

      This document specifies SA46T Address Translator (SA46T-AT)
      specification.  SA46T-AT enable access to IPv4 only host from IPv6
      host.  IPv4 host is identified as SA46T global address in IPv6
      address space.  The address assigned to IPv4 host may be global IPv4
      address or private IPv4 address.  SA46T-AT does not support access to
      IPv6 host from IPv4 only host.

  "Representing phonetics for Japanese names in Atom feeds", Murata
  Makoto, 2013-09-17, <draft-murata-atom-phonetics-04.txt>

      This specification introduces an attribute for representing Japanese
      phonetics within feeds of the Atom Syndication Format [RFC4287].
      Such phonetics MAY be attached to author names and article titles.
      This attribute is applicable to OPDS(Open Publication Distribution
      System)[OPDS], which is based on Atom.

  "Supercharged Codes", Erik Stauffer, BZ Shen, Soumen Chakraborty,
  Djordje Tujkovic, Jing Huang, Shiv Shet, Kamlesh Rath, 2013-09-26,
  <draft-stauffer-rmt-bb-fec-supercharged-03.txt>

      This document describes a fully-specified FEC scheme for the
      Supercharged forward error correction code.  Supercharged codes are
      designed for use on the erasure channel.  Coding for the erasure
      channel commonly arises for data transmission over the internet, where
      lower layers either successfully deliver packets or fail to deliver
      them.  Coding is required to insure that data is not lost, even if
      packets are lost at the lower layers.  Error free reception is
      important for multimedia applications, such as streaming, where it may
      not be possible to correct an error in time by any other means.  Coding
      insures that lost packets can be recovered.

  "BGP Remote-Next-Hop", Gunter Van de Velde, Keyur Patel, Dhananjaya Rao,
  Robert Raszuk, Randy Bush, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-vandevelde-idr-remote-next-hop-04.txt>

      The BGP Remote-Next-Hop is a new optional transitive attribute
      intended to facilitate automatic tunneling across an AS on a per
      address family basis.  The attribute carries one or more tunnel end-
      points for a NLRI.  Additionally, tunnel encapsulation information is
      communicated to successfully setup these tunnels.

  "Forwarding and Control Element Separation (ForCES) OpenFlow Model
  Library", Evangelos Haleplidis, Omar Cherkaoui, Susan Hares, Weiming
  Wang, 2013-04-25, <draft-haleplidis-forces-openflow-lib-03.txt>

      This document describes the OpenFlow switch in Logical Function
      Blocks (LFBs) used in the Forwarding and Control Element Separation
      (ForCES).  The LFB classes are defined according to the ForCES
      Forwading Element (FE) model and ForCES protocol specifications.  The
      library includes the descriptions of the OpenFlow LFBs and the XML
      definitions.

  "CoAP Payload-Length Option Extension", Kepeng Li, 2013-08-16,
  <draft-li-core-coap-payload-length-option-02.txt>

      This document defines an extension to the Constrained Application
      Protocol (CoAP) to add one new option: Payload-Length, which is used
      to indicate the length of the payload of the message.

  "Conference Focus Indicating CCMP Support", Rifaat Shekh-Yusef, Mary
  Barnes, 2013-10-09, <draft-yusef-dispatch-ccmp-indication-07.txt>

      The Centralized Conferencing Manipulation Protocol (CCMP) document
      defines a way for a client to discover a conference control server
      that supports CCMP. However, it does not define a way for a client
      involved in a conference to determine if the conference focus
      supports CCMP. This information would allow a CCMP-enabled client
      that joins a conference using SIP to also register for the
      centralized conferencing (XCON) conference event package and take
      advantage of CCMP operations on the conference.
      
      This document describes two mechanisms, depending upon the need of
      the User Agent (UA), to address the above limitation. The first
      mechanism uses the Call-Info header, and the second mechanism defines
      a new value for the 'purpose' parameter in the 'service-uris' element
      in the SIP conferencing event package.

  "ICTP - Information Centric Transport Protocol for CONET ICN", Stefano
  Salsano, Andrea Detti, Nicola Blefari-Melazzi, Matteo Cancellieri,
  2013-06-20, <draft-salsano-ictp-02.txt>

      Let us consider an Information Centric Networking (ICN) solution, in
      which an End Node requests for a content sending "content requests"
      (or "interest packets").  The content is provided back to the
      requestor by the "origin" node or by an intermediate node that had
      cached the content.  The content is usually divided into "chunks"
      that can be individually requested, sent back to the requester,
      cached into intermediate nodes.  The sending rate of content requests
      can be adjusted in order to perform congestion control, implementing
      a receiver driven transport protocol.  As it can be useful to have
      large chunks (significantly larger than the Maximum Tranfer Unit
      across the network), the transport protocol should also be used to
      further segment the chunks rather than relying to IP fragmentation.
      In this memo we define ICTP (Information Centric Transport Protocol),
      a receiver driven transport protocol for ICN, which relies on the
      CONET ICN solution described in a companion draft.

  "Omniscient AS112 Servers", Warren Kumari, William Sotomayor, Joe Abley,
  Ray Bellis, 2013-06-20, <draft-wkumari-dnsop-omniscient-as112-03.txt>

      The AS112 Project loosely coordinates Domain Name System (DNS)
      servers to which DNS zones corresponding to private use addresses are
      delegated.  Queries for names within those zones have no useful
      responses in a global context.  The purpose of this project is to
      reduce the load of such junk queries on the authoritative name
      servers that would otherwise receive them, and instead direct the
      load to name servers operated within the AS112 project.
      
      Due to the loosely-coordinated nature of the project, adding and
      dropping zones from the AS112 servers is difficult.  This document
      proposes a mechanism by which AS112 name servers could answer
      authoritatively for all possible zones.  This eliminates the add/drop
      problem, changing it to a matter of delegation within the DNS and
      requiring no operational changes on the servers themselves.
      
      This document updates RFC 6304.

  "Responsible Grandparenting in the RPKI", Randy Bush, 2013-08-03,
  <draft-ymbk-rpki-grandparenting-03.txt>

      There are circumstances in RPKI operation where a resource holder's
      parent may not be able to, or may not choose to, facilitate full and
      proper registration of the holder's data.  As in real life, the
      holder may form a relationship with their grandparent who is willing
      to aid the grandchild.  This document describes simple procedures for
      doing so.

  "JSON Hypertext Application Language", Mike Kelly, 2013-10-03,
  <draft-kelly-json-hal-06.txt>

      This document proposes a media type for representing resources and
      their relations with hyperlinks.

  "Indoor Signal Position Conveyance", Kipp Jones, Christopher Steger,
  2013-05-08, <draft-jones-geopriv-sigpos-survey-02.txt>

      Location Information Servers rely on signal surveys to create a
      signal map allowing for subsequent device location determination.
      This document describes a method by which a Survey Device is able to
      provide indoor location related measurement data to a LIS for
      positioning purposes.  Location related measurement information
      comprises observations concerning properties related to the position
      of a Survey Device and the radio, electromagnetic, and other
      observable environmental measures as perceived by the Survey Device.
      These measurements could be data about Wi-Fi signals, Bluetooth
      signals, barometric pressure, or any other environmental measurement
      which could sent to a LIS for subsequent processing to help determine
      the location of devices that later enter the venue.  A basic set of
      location-related measurements, data rights disclosure and location
      types are defined.

  "Definition of Managed Objects for the Lightweight On-demand Ad hoc
  Distance-vector Routing Protocol - Next Generation (LOADng)", Ulrich
  Herberg, Robert Cole, Thomas Clausen, 2013-07-14,
  <draft-herberg-lln-loadng-mib-03.txt>

      This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
      for use with network management protocols in the Internet community.
      In particular, it describes objects for configuring parameters of the
      Lightweight On-demand Ad hoc Distance-vector Routing Protocol - Next
      Generation (LOADng) process on a router.  The MIB module defined in
      this memo, denoted LOADng-MIB, also reports state.  While LOADng is
      layer agnostic and can be run with different address families (e.g.,
      on L2 using MAC addreses, or on L3 using IP addresss), this MIB
      module assumes that LOADng is used on L3, and uses only IPv4/IPv6
      addresses.

  "Authenticated Encryption with AES-CBC and HMAC-SHA", David McGrew, John
  Foley, Kenny Paterson, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-mcgrew-aead-aes-cbc-hmac-sha2-02.txt>

      This document specifies algorithms for authenticated encryption with
      associated data (AEAD) that are based on the composition of the
      Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) in the Cipher Block Chaining (CBC)
      mode of operation for encryption, and the HMAC-SHA message
      authentication code (MAC).
      
      These are randomized encryption algorithms, and thus are suitable for
      use with applications that cannot provide distinct nonces to each
      invocation of the AEAD encrypt operation.

  "CoAP Profile Description Format", Bert Greevenbosch, Jeroen Hoebeke,
  Isam Ishaq, Floris Van den Abeele, 2013-06-20,
  <draft-greevenbosch-core-profile-description-02.txt>

      This document provides a profile description format, that can be used
      to express capabilities of a CoAP server.
      
      Note
      
      Discussion and suggestions for improvement are requested, and should
      be sent to core@ietf.org.

  "An HTTP Status Code to Report Legal Obstacles", Tim Bray, 2013-07-10,
  <draft-tbray-http-legally-restricted-status-03.txt>

      This document specifies an additional Hypertext Transfer Protocol
      (HTTP) status code for use when resource access is denied due to
      legal demands.

  "DNS Extension for Autonomous Internet(AIP)", Yuping Diao, Diao
  Yongping, Ming Liao, 2013-06-23, <draft-diao-aip-dns-03.txt>

      With the reality of Internet, Autonomous Internet technology
      in this article constructs independent autonomous extensible domain
      name architecture and domain name hierarchy through current domain
      name architecture, provides independent root DNS server, inner/outer
      DNS resolution mechanism for each autonomous internet network system,
      and provides reformation and transition solution from current
      Internet to realize autonomy even in unilateral action.

  "NVO3 Operational Requirements", Peter Ashwood-Smith, Ranga Iyengar,
  Tina Tsou, Ali Sajassi, Mohamed Boucadair, Christian Jacquenet, Masahiro
  Daikoku, 2013-07-14, <draft-ashwood-nvo3-operational-requirement-03.txt>

      This document provides framework and requirements for Network
      Virtualization over Layer 3 (NVO3) Operations, Administration, and
      Maintenance (OAM).  This document for the most part gathers
      requirements from existing IETF drafts and RFCs which have already
      extensively studied this subject for different data planes and
      layering.  As a result this draft is high level and broad.  We begin
      to ask which are truly required for NVO3 and expect the list to be
      narrowed by the working group as subsequent versions of this draft
      are created.

  "An FTP Application Layer Gateway (ALG) for IPv4-to-IPv6 Translation",
  Tina Tsou, Simon Perreault, Jing Huang, 2013-09-16,
  <draft-tsou-behave-ftp46-01.txt>

      An FTP ALG for NAT64 was defined in RFC 6384.  Its scope was limited
      to an IPv6 client connecting to an IPv4 server.  This memo supports
      the case of an IPv4 client connecting to an IPv6 server.

  "Stateless IPv4 Network Address Translation", Tina Tsou, Will Liu, Simon
  Perreault, Reinaldo Penno, Maoke Chen, 2012-10-22,
  <draft-tsou-stateless-nat44-02.txt>

      This memo describes a protocol for decentralizing IPv4 NAT to the
      customer-premises equipment (CPE) such that no state information is
      kept on the central NAT device.  The CPE uses a restricted source
      port set that is encoded in its provisioned IPv4 WAN address.  The
      NAT device performs only strictly stateless address (not port)
      translation.

  "Indication of support for reverse keep-alive", Christer Holmberg, Oscar
  Gallego, 2013-06-17, <draft-holmberg-sipcore-rkeep-02.txt>

      This specification defines a new Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)
      Via header field parameter, "rkeep".  The "rkeep" parameter allows a
      SIP entity to indicate willingness to receive keep-alives from its
      adjacent downstream SIP entity, the adjacent downstream SIP entity to
      indicate willingness to send keep-alives, and for SIP entities
      willing to send keep-alives to inform the receiver about the keep-
      alive interval.

  "An SNMP MIB extension to RFC3591 to manage optical interface parameters
  of DWDM applications", Ruediger Kunze, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-galikunze-ccamp-g-698-2-snmp-mib-04.txt>

      This memo defines a module of the Management Information Base (MIB)
      used by Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) in TCP/IP- based
      internet.  In particular, it defines objects for managing Optical
      parameters associated with Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexing
      (DWDM) interfaces.  This is an extension of the RFC3591 to support
      the optical parameters described in ITU-T G.698.2.  [ITU.G698.2]
      
      The MIB module defined in this memo can be used for Optical
      Parameters monitoring and/or configuration of the endpoints of Black
      Links.

  "A Framework for Autonomic Networking", Michael Behringer, Max Pritikin,
  Steinthor Bjarnason, Alex Clemm, 2013-10-15,
  <draft-behringer-autonomic-network-framework-01.txt>

      Autonomic systems were first described in 2001.  The fundamental goal
      is self-management, including self-configuration, self-optimization,
      self-healing and self-protection.
      
      This document applies the concepts of autonomic systems to a network,
      and describes a framework for Autonomic Networking.  The goal is a
      network where nodes have minimal dependencies on human administrators
      or centralized management systems.

  "OmniBroker Protocol", Phillip Hallam-Baker, 2013-07-08,
  <draft-hallambaker-omnibroker-06.txt,.pdf>

      An Omnibroker is an agent chosen and trusted by an Internet user to
      provide information such as name and certificate status information
      that are in general trusted even if they are not trustworthy.  Rather
      than acting as a mere conduit for information provided by existing
      services, an Omnibroker is responsible for curating those sources to
      protect the user.
      
      The Omnibroker Protocol (OBP) provides an aggregated interface to
      trusted Internet services including DNS, OCSP and various forms of
      authentication service.  Multiple transport bindings are supported to
      permit efficient access in virtually every common deployment scenario
      and ensure access in any deployment scenario in which access is not
      being purposely denied.

  "Request Routing and Content Acquisition", Ge Chen, Mian Li, Hongfei
  Xia, Changle Zou, Jie Liang, 2013-06-27,
  <draft-chen-cdni-rr-content-acquisition-02.txt>

      This document illustrates the details of an alternative method that
      can be used to provide request routing and content acquisition
      services.

  "Emergency Services Support in WebRTC", Bernard Aboba, Martin Thomson,
  2013-06-13, <draft-aboba-rtcweb-ecrit-01.txt>

      The Web Real-Time Communication (WebRTC) framework supports
      interactive communication between web-browsers, including support for
      audio, video and text.  This document describes how emergency
      services functionality can be implemented within the WebRTC
      framework, including support for location and call routing as well as
      interoperability with Public Safety Answering Points (PSAPs)
      supporting next generation emergency services.

  "TMPP for Both Two MPTCP-unaware Hosts", Kaiping Xue, Jing Guo, Peilin
  Hong, Lei Zhu, 2013-06-20, <draft-xue-mptcp-tmpp-unware-hosts-02.txt>

      Transparent MPTCP Proxy(TMPP) is an introduced network-based
      function, which is under MPTCP architecture.  It can help two MPTCP-
      unaware hosts enjoy multipath support, and can be extensively used
      both in the access networks and operators' networks.  Meanwhile, in
      MPTCP architecture with TMPP, TMPP needs to modify the received
      packets and transmit them again(just like gateway in NAT
      environment).  In this document, we also discuss the guarantee for
      data transfer on TMPP's side.  The consideration of data transfer can
      be expanded to the MPTCP architecture with proxy.

  "Flow Mobility In Multi-LMA Environment", Kaiping Xue, Dan Ni, Peilin
  Hong, Anthony Chan, 2013-06-20,
  <draft-xue-netext-flowmo-multilma-02.txt>

      PMIPv6 allows multiple Local Mobility Anchors(LMA) to exist in a
      PMIPv6 domain, it MAY cause that different interfaces of a mobile
      node(MN) are anchored in different LMAs.  This document proposes the
      extensions of Proxy Mobile IPv6 protocol to support flow mobility in
      multi-LMA environment.  Among all the scenarios discussed here, the
      scenario in which different interfaces with different MAGs in multi-
      LMA environment cannot use traditional ways to realize flow mobility
      to an existing interface.

  "Routing optimization in DMM", Kaiping Xue, Lin Li, Peilin Hong, Pete
  McCann, 2013-06-20, <draft-xue-dmm-routing-optimization-02.txt>

      This draft proposes a PMIP-based routing optimization method in
      distributed anchor architecture.  The anchor of the mobile node is
      able to communicate with the anchor of corresponding node directly
      using optimized routing.  In this draft, there are two modes for the
      setup of routing optimization: the direct mode and the relay mode.
      The difference between them lies in that whether the routing
      optimization is set up directly or under the assistance of a third
      anchor.  The situation that Communication Node(CN) is a fixed
      terminal or a content server is also considered and 3 solutions are
      provided correspondingly.  The method proposed in this draft can
      reduce the delay and save signaling overhead in the current scheme.

  "VPWS support in E-VPN", Sami Boutros, Ali Sajassi, Samer Salam, John
  Drake, Jeff Tantsura, 2013-10-21, <draft-boutros-l2vpn-evpn-vpws-02.txt>

      This document describes how E-VPN can be used to support virtual
      private wire service (VPWS) in MPLS/IP networks. E-VPN enables the
      following characteristics for VPWS: single-active as well as all-
      active multi-homing with flow-based load-balancing, eliminates the
      need for single-segment and multi-segment PW signaling, and provides
      fast protection using data-plane prefix independent convergence upon
      node or link failure.

  "A Roadmap for Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) Specification
  Documents", Martin Duke, Robert Braden, Wesley Eddy, Ethan Blanton,
  Alexander Zimmermann, 2013-05-21,
  <draft-zimmermann-tcpm-tcp-rfc4614bis-02.txt,.pdf>

      This document contains a "roadmap" to the Requests for Comments (RFC)
      documents relating to the Internet's Transmission Control Protocol
      (TCP).  This roadmap provides a brief summary of the documents
      defining TCP and various TCP extensions that have accumulated in the
      RFC series.  This serves as a guide and quick reference for both TCP
      implementers and other parties who desire information contained in
      the TCP-related RFCs.

  "LISP ITR Graceful Restart", Damien Saucez, Olivier Bonaventure, Luigi
  Iannone, Clarence Filsfils, 2013-06-24,
  <draft-saucez-lisp-itr-graceful-02.txt>

      The Locator/ID Separation Protocol (LISP) is a map-and-encap
      mechanism to enable communications between hosts identified with
      their Endpoint IDentifier (EID) over the Internet where EIDs are not
      routable.  To do so, packets toward EIDs are encapsulated in packets
      with routing locators (RLOCs) to form dynamic tunnels.  An Ingress
      Tunnel Router (ITR) that encapsulates EID packets determines tunnel
      endpoints via mappings that associate EIDs to RLOCs.  Before
      encapsulating a packet, the ITR queries the mapping system to obtain
      the mapping associated to the EID of the packet it must encapsulate.
      Such mapping is cached by the ITR in its local EID-to-RLOC Cache for
      any subsequent encapsulation for the same EID.  LISP is scalable
      because EID-to-RLOC mappings are cached on ITRs.  Initially, the
      cache is empty and is populated progressively according to the
      traffic traversing the ITR.  However, after an ITR is restarted,
      e.g., for maintenance reason, its cache is empty which means that all
      packets that are re-routed to the freshly restarted ITR will cause
      cache misses and a potentially high loss rate.  In this draft, we
      present mechanisms to reduce the negative impact on traffic caused by
      the restart of an ITR in a LISP network.

  "Loop Free RPL", Jianlin Guo, Philip Orlik, 2013-06-26,
  <draft-guo-roll-loop-free-rpl-02.txt>

      The IETF has developed the IPv6 based standards for Low-power and
      Lossy Networks (LLNs) to meet requirements of constrained
      applications, such as field monitoring, inventory control and so on.
      The IPv6 Routing Protocol for LLNs (RPL) was published as [RFC6550]
      in March 2012. Based on routing metrics and constraints [RFC6551],
      RPL builds Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG) topology to establish
      bidirectional routes for LLNs for traffic types of multipoint-to-
      point, point-to-multipoint, and point-to-point. RPL routes are
      optimized for traffic to or from one or more roots that act as sinks.
      As a result, a DAG is partitioned into one or more Destination
      Oriented DAGs (DODAGs), one DODAG per sink. RPL is widely considered
      as a feasible routing protocol for LLNs. However, DODAG loops and
      lack of a loop free DODAG local repair mechanism are two open issues
      to be addressed. This draft introduces an alternative rank and an
      Objective Function to eliminate DODAG loops in RPL. Based on the
      proposed rank and Objective Function, this draft introduces a loop
      free RPL.

  "E-TREE Support in EVPN & PBB-EVPN", Ali Sajassi, Samer Salam, Sami
  Boutros, Wim Henderickx, Jim Uttaro, Aldrin Isaac, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-sajassi-l2vpn-evpn-etree-02.txt>

      The Metro Ethernet Forum (MEF) has defined a rooted-multipoint
      Ethernet service known as Ethernet Tree (E-Tree).  [ETREE-FMWK]
      proposes a solution framework for supporting this service in MPLS
      networks. This document discusses how those functional requirements
      can be easily met with EVPN.

  "Fragmentation Revisited", Fred Templin, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-generic-6man-tunfrag-09.txt>

      IP fragmentation has long been subject for scrutiny since the
      publication of "Fragmentation Considered Harmful" in 1987.  This work
      cast fragmentation in a negative light that has persisted to the
      present day.  However, the tone of the work failed to honor two
      principles of creative thinking: never say "always" and never say
      "never".  This document discusses uses for fragmentation that apply
      both to the present day and moving forward into the future.

  "Managing and removing automatic version rollback in TLS Clients", Yngve
  Pettersen, 2013-08-21,
  <draft-pettersen-tls-version-rollback-removal-02.txt>

      Ever since vendors started deploying TLS 1.0 clients, these clients
      have had to handle server implementations that do not tolerate the
      TLS version supported by the client, usually by automatically
      signaling an older supported version instead.  Such version rollbacks
      represent a potential security hazard, if the older version should
      become vulnerable to attacks.  The same history repeated when TLS
      Extensions were introduced, as some servers would not negotiate with
      clients that sent these protocol extensions, forcing clients to
      reduce protocol functionality in order to maintain interoperability.
      
      This document outlines a procedure to help clients decide when they
      may use version rollback to maintain interoperability with legacy
      servers, under what conditions the clients should not allow version
      rollbacks, such as when the server has indicated support for the TLS
      Renegotiation Information extension.  The intention of this procedure
      is to limit the use of automatic version rollback to legacy servers
      and eventually eliminate its use.

  "Practices for scaling ARP and ND for large data centers", Linda Dunbar,
  Warren Kumari, Igor Gashinsky, 2013-03-13,
  <draft-dunbar-armd-arp-nd-scaling-practices-07.txt>

      This draft documents some operational practices that allow ARP/ND
      to scale in data center environments.

  "Problem Details for HTTP APIs", Mark Nottingham, Erik Wilde,
  2013-06-03, <draft-nottingham-http-problem-04.txt>

      This document defines a "problem detail" as a way to carry machine-
      readable details of errors in a HTTP response, to avoid the need to
      invent new error response formats for HTTP APIs.
      
      Note to Readers
      
      This draft should be discussed on the apps-discuss mailing list [1].

  "TRILL Resilient Distribution Trees", Mingui Zhang, Tissa Senevirathne,
  Janardhanan Pathangi, Ayan Banerjee, Anoop Ghanwani, Donald Eastlake,
  2013-10-20, <draft-zhang-trill-resilient-trees-04.txt>

      TRILL protocol provides layer 2 multicast data forwarding using IS-IS
      link state routing. Distribution trees are computed based on the link
      state information through Shortest Path First calculation. When a
      link on the distribution tree fails, a campus-wide recovergence of
      this distribution tree will take place, which can be time consuming
      and may cause considerable disruption to the ongoing multicast
      service.
      
      This document proposes to build the backup distribution tree to
      protect links on the primary distribution tree. Since the backup
      distribution tree is built up ahead of the link failure, when a link
      on the primary distribution tree fails, the pre-installed backup
      forwarding table will be utilized to deliver multicast packets
      without waiting for the campus-wide recovergence, which minimizes the
      service disruption.

  "Best Practices for HTTP-CoAP Mapping Implementation", Angelo
  Castellani, Salvatore Loreto, Akbar Rahman, Thomas Fossati, Esko Dijk,
  2013-07-01, <draft-castellani-core-advanced-http-mapping-02.txt>

      This draft describes advanced features for HTTP-CoAP proxy
      implementors.  It details deployment options, discusses possible
      approaches for URI mapping, and provides useful considerations
      related to protocol translation.

  "Implications of Blocking Outgoing Ports Except Ports 80 and 443", Marc
  Blanchet, 2013-07-31, <draft-blanchet-iab-internetoverport443-02.txt>

      Users are often connected to Internet with very few outgoing ports
      available, such as only port 80 and 443 over TCP.  This situation has
      many implications on designing, deploying and using IETF protocols,
      such as encaspulating protocols within HTTP, difficulty to do traffic
      engineering, quality of service, peer-to-peer, multi-channel
      protocols or deploying new transport protocols.  This document
      describes the situation and its implications.

  "MSML Package for the Media Control Channel Framework", Adnan Saleem,
  Steve Dunn, 2013-07-02, <draft-saleem-mediactrl-msml-package-02.txt>

      The Media Server Markup Language [RFC5707] is used to control and
      invoke many different types of services on IP media servers. MSML can
      be used, for example, to control media server conferencing features
      such as video layout and audio mixing, create sidebar conferences or
      personal mixes, and set the properties of media streams.  As well,
      clients can use MSML to define media processing dialogs, which may be
      used as parts of application interactions with users or conferences.
      This document describes the use of MSML [RFC5707] language used
      within the context of Media Control Channel Framework [RFC6230]. The
      use of MSML [RFC5707] is described here as a standalone package for
      use within and compliant with the Media Control Channel Framework
      [RFC6230].

  "Enhanced Sleepy Node Support for CoAP", Akbar Rahman, 2013-10-08,
  <draft-rahman-core-sleepy-04.txt>

      CoAP is a specialized web transfer protocol for constrained devices.
      These devices typically have some combination of limited battery
      power, small memory footprint and low throughput links.  It is
      expected that in CoAP networks there will be a certain portion of
      devices that are "sleepy" and which may occasionally go into a sleep
      mode (i.e. go into a low power state to conserve power) and
      temporarily suspend CoAP protocol communication.  This document
      proposes a minimal and efficient mechanism building on the Resource
      Directory (RD) functionality to enhance sleepy node support in CoAP
      networks.  The RD functionality may be incorporated as part of a CoAP
      Proxy.

  "Using PCP to update dynamic DNS", Xiaohong Deng, Mohamed Boucadair, Qin
  Zhao, Jing Huang, 2013-07-15, <draft-deng-pcp-ddns-03.txt>

      This document focuses on the problems encountered when using dynamic
      DNS in address sharing contexts (e.g., DS-Lite, NAT64, A+P)during
      IPv6 transition. Issues, possible solutions and preliminary
      implementation and validation of one of the solutions are documented
      in this memo.

  "Fast Reroute Extensions to Receiver-Driven RSVP-TE for Multicast
  Tunnels", Katherine Zhao, Renwei Li, Christian Jacquenet, 2013-08-29,
  <draft-zlj-mpls-mrsvp-te-frr-02.txt>

      This document specifies fast reroute procedures to protect multicast
      LSP tunnels built by mRSVP-TE, a receiver-driven extension to RSVP-TE
      specified by [I-D.draft-lzj-mpls-receiver-driven-multicast-rsvp-te].
      This document is motivated by the observation that the existing FRR
      solution specified by [RFC4090] and [RFC4875] for the sender-driven
      RSVP-TE is no longer applicable to the receiver-driven RSVP-TE.

  "Deprecation of AS_SET and AS_CONFED_SET in BGP", Warren Kumari,
  Kotikalapudi Sriram, 2013-07-08,
  <draft-kumari-deprecate-as-set-confed-set-02.txt>

      RFC 6472 (i.e., BCP 172) recommends not using AS_SET and
      AS_CONFED_SET in BGP.  This document updates RFC 4271 and proscribes
      the use of the AS_SET and AS_CONFED_SET types of the AS_PATH in
      BGPv4.  This is done to simplify the design and implementation of BGP
      and to make the semantics of the originator of a route more clear.
      This will also simplify the design, implementation, and deployment of
      ongoing work in the Secure Inter-Domain Routing Working Group.

  "Provisioning Message Authentication Key for PCP using PANA
  (Side-by-Side Approach)", Yoshihiro Ohba, Yasuyuki Tanaka, Subir Das,
  Alper Yegin, Tina Tsou, 2013-07-02, <draft-ohba-pcp-pana-04.txt>

      This document specifies a mechanism for provisioning PCP (Port
      Control Protocol) message authentication key using PANA (Protocol for
      carrying Authentication for Network Access).

  "Opportunistic Routing based on Users Daily Life Routine", Waldir
  Moreira, Paulo Mendes, Ronedo Ferreira, Douglas Cirqueira, Eduardo
  Cerqueira, 2013-04-25, <draft-moreira-dlife-02.txt>

      This document is written in the context of the Delay Tolerant
      Networking Research Group and will be presented for reviewing by that
      group. This document defines dLife, an opportunistic routing protocol
      that takes advantage of time-evolving social structures. dLife
      belongs to the family of social-aware opportunistic routing protocols
      for intermittently connected networks. dLife operates based on a
      representation of the dynamics of social structures as a weighted
      contact graph, where the weights (i.e., social strengths) express how
      long a pair of nodes is in contact over different period of times. It
      considers two complementary utility functions: Time-Evolving Contact
      Duration (TECD) that captures the evolution of social interaction
      among pairs of users in the same daily period of time, over
      consecutive days; and TECD Importance (TECDi) that captures the
      evolution of user's importance, based on its node degree and the
      social strength towards its neighbors, in different periods of time.
      It is intended for use in wireless networks where there is no
      guarantee that a fully connected path between any source -
      destination pair exists at any time, a scenario where traditional
      routing protocols are unable to deliver bundles. Such networks can be
      sparse mesh, in which case intermittent connectivity is due to lack
      of physical connections, or dense mesh, in which case intermittent
      connectivity may be due to high interference or shadowing. In any
      case, intermittent connectivity can also be due to the availability
      of devices (e.g., unavailable due to power saving rules). The
      document presents an architectural overview followed by the protocol
      specification.

  "Mapping Wi-Fi QoS in a PMIPv6 Mobility Domain", John Kaippallimalil,
  Rajesh Pazhyannur, Parviz Yegani, 2013-10-17,
  <draft-kaippallimalil-netext-pmip-qos-wifi-03.txt>

      This document provides a specification to enable end to end QoS in
      networks containing a Wi-Fi network coupled with a PMIPv6 mobility
      domain consisting of a local mobility anchor and mobility access
      gateway. This enables QoS policing and labeling of packets in a
      consistent manner on the 802.11 link between the MN and the AP as
      well as the link between the MAG and the LMA. To enable this, the
      document specifies mapping between QoS parameters on the 802.11 link
      and the QoS Mobility options in the PMIPv6 domain.

  "PPSP Tracker Protocol--Extended Protocol", Rachel Huang, Ning Zong, Rui
  Cruz, Mario Nunes, Joao Taveira, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-huang-ppsp-extended-tracker-protocol-04.txt>

      This document specifies an extended Peer-to-Peer Streaming Protocol -
      Tracker Protocol, which is a new extension protocol complementing the
      basic core messages and usages specified in the base tracker protocol
      for the exchange of meta information between trackers and peers, such as
      initial offer/request of participation in multimedia content streaming,
      content information, peer lists and reports of activity and status. It
      extends the base tracker protocol to include new optional messages
      providing new usages in the communications between peer and tracker. The
      extension protocol is retro-compatible with the base tracker protocol.

  "Path Computation Element (PCE) Protocol Extensions for Stateful PCE
  Usage in GMPLS-controlled Networks", Xian Zhang, Young Lee, Fatai Zhang,
  Ramon Casellas, Oscar de Dios, Zafar Ali, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-zhang-pce-pcep-stateful-pce-gmpls-03.txt>

      The Path Computation Element (PCE) facilitates Traffic Engineering
      (TE) based path calculation in large, multi-domain, multi-region, or
      multi-layer networks. [Stateful-PCE] provides the fundamental PCE
      communication Protocol (PCEP) extensions needed to support stateful
      PCE functions, without specifying the technology-specific extensions.
      This memo provides extensions required for PCEP so as to enable the
      usage of a stateful PCE capability in GMPLS-controlled networks.

  "Aware Spanning Tree Topology Change on RBridges", Li Yizhou, Hao
  Weiguo, Jon Hudson, Naveen Nimmu, Anoop Ghanwani, 2013-05-02,
  <draft-yizhou-trill-tc-awareness-02.txt>

      When a local LAN running spanning tree protocol connecting to TRILL
      campus via more than one RBridge, there are several ways to perform
      loop avoidance. One of them illustrated by RFC6325 [RFC6325] A.3 was
      to make relevant ports on edge RBridges involving in spanning tree
      calculation. When edge RBridges are emulated as a single highest
      priority root, the local bridged LAN will be naturally partitioned
      after running spanning tree protocol. This approach achieves better
      link utilization and intra-VLAN load balancing in some scenarios.
      This document describes how the edge RBridges react to topology
      change occurring in bridged LAN in order to make the abovementioned
      spanning tree approach function correct.

  "ALTO Extensions for Collecting Data Center Resource Information", Young
  Lee, Greg Bernstein, Dhruv Dhody, 2013-07-08,
  <draft-lee-alto-ext-dc-resource-02.txt>

      In a networked application environment where resources (e.g.,
      computing, storage, etc.) are geographically distributed in Data
      Centers, a key decision is to allocate the application request to an
      "optimal" Data Center location in which to host the application
      request. Key constraints in this decision include resource
      availability, network cost, infrastructure constraints (e.g., power)
      and others. This draft proposes an ALTO extension to support data
      center resource information model and its related protocol
      extensions.

  "<Green Usage Monitoring Information Base>", Takuo Suganuma, Naoki
  Nakamura, Satoru Izumi, Hiroshi Tsunoda, Masahiro Matsuda, Kohei Ohta,
  2013-07-11, <draft-suganuma-greenmib-02.txt>

      This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB),
      the GreenUsage MIB, for use with network management protocols
      in the Internet community.  In particular, the GreenUsage MIB
      can be used to monitor the power-on/power-off status of electrical
      devices.

  "A Uniform Resource Name (URN) Namespace for Certificates", Sean
  Leonard, 2013-10-21, <draft-seantek-certspec-01.txt>

      Digital certificates are used in many systems and protocols to
      identify and authenticate parties.  This document describes a Uniform
      Resource Name (URN) namespace that identifies certificates.  These
      URNs can be used when certificates need to be identified by value or
      reference.

  "Analysis of Semantic Embedded IPv6 Address Schemas", Sheng Jiang,
  Qiong, Ian Farrer, Yang Bo, Tianle Yang, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-jiang-semantic-prefix-06.txt>

      This informational document discusses the use of embedded semantics
      within IPv6 address schemas.  Network operators who have large IPv6
      address space may choose to embed some semantics into their IPv6
      addressing by assigning additional significance to specific bits
      within the prefix.  By embedding semantics into IPv6 prefixes, the
      semantics of packets can be easily inspected.  This can simplify the
      packet differentiation process.  However, semantic embedded IPv6
      address schemas have their own operational cost and even potential
      pitfalls.  Some complex semantic embedded IPv6 address schemas may
      also require new technologies in addition to existing Internet
      protocols.
      
      The document aims to understand the usage of semantic embedded IPv6
      address schemas, and neutrally analyze on the associated advantages,
      drawbacks and technical gaps for more complex address schemas.

  "LISP Single-Hop DHT Mapping Overlay", Li Cheng, Jun Wang, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-cheng-lisp-shdht-04.txt>

      This draft specifies the LISP Single-Hop Distributed Hash Table
      Mapping Database (LISP-SHDHT), a distributed mapping database which
      consists of a set of SHDHT Nodes to provide mappings from LISP
      Endpoint Identifiers (EIDs) to Routing Locators (RLOCs).  EID
      namespace is dynamically distributed among SHDHT Nodes based on DHT
      Hash algorithm.  Each SHDHT Node is configured with one or more hash
      spaces which contain multiple EID-prefixes along with RLOCs of
      corresponding Map Servers.

  "MAP Interoperability Testing Results", Xing Li, Congxiao Bao, Guoliang
  Han, Wojciech Dec, 2013-07-05, <draft-xli-softwire-map-testing-02.txt>

      This document presents the testing results of a unified code
      accommodating encapsulation and translation modes of Mapping of
      Address and Port (MAP).  Experiments show that the unified MAP CE is
      not only supporting MAP-E and MAP-T modes, but also backward
      compatible with AFTR of dual-stack lite and stateless/stateful NAT64.

  "A SNMP MIB to manage GMPLS with General Constraints support", Gabriele
  Galimberti, Giovanni Martinelli, Dharini Hiremagalur, Gert Grammel,
  2013-07-14, <draft-gmggm-ccamp-gencons-snmp-mib-02.txt>

      This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
      used by Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) for GMPLS based
      networks.
      
      In particular in the context Wavelength Switching Optical Network
      (WSON) two sets of information were defined: a general constrains set
      (reusable by other technologies) and a WSON specific set.  This
      document defines a MIB module for supporting general constrain
      information.

  "RADIUS Attribute for 4rd", Sheng Jiang, Yu Fu, Bing Liu, 2013-08-02,
  <draft-jiang-softwire-4rd-radius-03.txt>

      IPv4 Residual Deployment via IPv6 (4rd) is a stateless mechanism for
      running IPv4 over IPv6-only infrastructure. It provides both IPv4 and
      IPv6 connectivity services simultaneously during the IPv4/IPv6 co-
      existing period. The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6
      (DHCPv6) 4rd options has been defined to configure 4rd Customer Edge
      (CE). However, in many networks, the configuration information may be
      stored in Authentication Authorization and Accounting (AAA) servers
      while user configuration is mainly from Broadband Network Gateway
      (BNG) through DHCPv6 protocol. This document defines a Remote
      Authentication Dial In User Service (RADIUS) attribute that carries
      4rd configuration information from AAA server to BNG. The 4rd RADIUS
      attribute are designed following the simplify principle. It provides
      just enough information to form the correspondent DHCPv6 4rd option.

  "Requirements for IP/MPLS network transmission interruption duration",
  Peng Fan, Lianyuan Li, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-fan-opsawg-transmission-interruption-03.txt>

      The transmission performance of IP/MPLS network affects upper layer
      services and networks, but there is no consensus in the industry on
      transmission interruption for IP/MPLS network up to now.  This memo
      studies requirements for the interruption duration criteria in
      several service scenarios.

  "RADIUS Extensions for IPv4-Embedded Multicast and Unicast IPv6
  Prefixes", Qian Wang, Wei Meng, Cui Wang, Mohamed Boucadair, 2013-10-11,
  <draft-hu-softwire-multicast-radius-ext-04.txt>

      This document specifies a new Remote Authentication Dial-In User
      Service (RADIUS) attribute to carry the Multicast-Prefixes-64
      information, the objective is to deliver the Multicast and Unicast
      IPv6 Prefixes to be used to build multicast and unicast IPv4-Embedded
      IPv6 addresses.  this RADIUS attribute is defined based on the
      equivalent DHCPv6 OPTION_PREFIX64 option.

  "Filtering of Overlapping Routes", Russ White, Alvaro Retana, Susan
  Hares, 2013-10-17, <draft-white-grow-overlapping-routes-02.txt>

      This document proposes an optional mechanism to remove a prefix when
      it overlaps with a functionally equivalent shorter prefix.  The
      proposed mechanism does not require any changes to the BGP protocol.

  "Third-Party ALTO Server Discovery (3pdisc)", Sebastian Kiesel, Kilian
  Krause, Martin Stiemerling, 2013-07-15, <draft-kist-alto-3pdisc-04.txt>

      The goal of Application-Layer Traffic Optimization (ALTO) is to
      provide guidance to applications that have to select one or several
      hosts from a set of candidates capable of providing a desired
      resource.  ALTO is realized by a client-server protocol.  Before an
      ALTO client can ask for guidance it needs to discover one or more
      ALTO servers that can provide suitable guidance.
      
      This document specifies a procedure for third-party ALTO server
      discovery, which can be used if the ALTO client is not co-located
      with the actual resource consumer, but instead embedded in a third
      party such as a peer-to-peer tracker.
      
      Technically, the algorithm specified in this document takes one
      IP address and a U-NAPTR Service Parameter (i.e., "ALTO:http" or
      "ALTO:https") as parameters.  It performs several DNS lookups (for
      U-NAPTR and SOA resource records) and returns one or more URI(s) of
      information resources related to that IP address.

  "A Framework and Requirements for Energy Aware Control Planes", Alvaro
  Retana, Russ White, Manuel Paul, 2013-10-17,
  <draft-retana-rtgwg-eacp-02.txt>

      There has been, for several years, a rising concern over the energy
      usage of large scale networks.  This concern is strongly focused on
      campus, data center, and other highly concentrated deployments of
      network infrastructure.  Given the steadily increasing demand for
      higher network speeds, always-on service models, and ubiquitous
      network coverage, it is also of growing importance for
      telecommunication networks both local and wide area in scope.  One of
      the issues in moving forward to reduce energy usage is to ensure that
      the network can still meet the performance specifications required to
      support the applications running over it.
      
      This document provides an overview of the various areas of concern in
      the interaction between network performance and efforts at energy
      aware control planes, as a guide for those working on modifying
      current control planes or designing new control planes to improve the
      energy efficiency of high density, highly complex, network
      deployments.

  "LISP Replication Engineering", Florin Coras, Albert Cabellos-Aparicio,
  Jordi Domingo-Pascual, Fabio Maino, Dino Farinacci, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-coras-lisp-re-04.txt>

      This document describes a method to build and optimize inter-domain
      LISP router distribution trees for locator-based unicast and
      multicast replication of EID-sourced multicast packets.

  "Publish Option for CoAP", Thomas Fossati, Pierpaolo Giacomin, Salvatore
  Loreto, 2013-10-21, <draft-fossati-core-publish-option-02.txt>

      This memo defines the Publish Option for the Constrained Application
      Protocol (CoAP).  This Option is used by a CoAP Endpoint to control
      the authority delegation of one of its resources to another Endpoint.
      All the phases of the authority delegation process (setup, renewal,
      cancellation) are controlled by a simple RESTful protocol.
      
      This memo also introduces the 'proxies' Web Linking relation type, to
      be used by a CoAP Proxy to explicitly advertise the resources that it
      can serve from its cache, or by forwarding the Client request
      upstream (either to the origin, or to another Proxy).

  "Mobility with ICE (MICE)", Dan Wing, Tirumaleswar Reddy, Prashanth
  Patil, Paal-Erik Martinsen, 2013-09-27,
  <draft-wing-mmusic-ice-mobility-05.txt>

      This specification describes how endpoint mobility can be achieved
      using ICE.  Two mechanisms are shown, one where both endpoints
      support MICE and another where only one endpoint supports MICE.

  "Performance Issues with MPTCP", Ramin Khalili, Nicolas Gast, Miroslav
  Popovic, Jean-Yves Le Boudec, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-khalili-mptcp-performance-issues-04.txt,.pdf>

      We show, by measurements over a testbed and by mathematical analysis,
      that the current MPTCP suffers from two problems: (P1) Upgrading some
      TCP users to MPTCP can reduce the throughput of others without any
      benefit to the upgraded users; and (P2) MPTCP users can be
      excessively aggressive towards TCP users. We attribute these problems
      to the "Linked Increases" Algorithm (LIA) of MPTCP [4], and more
      specifically, to an excessive amount of traffic transmitted over
      congested paths. Our results show that these problems are important
      and can be mitigated. We believe that the design of the congestion
      control of MPTCP should be improved.

  "ALTO Extensions to Support Application and Network Resource Information
  Exchange for High Bandwidth Applications in TE networks", Young Lee,
  Dhruv Dhody, Qin Wu, Greg Bernstein, Taesang Choi, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-lee-alto-app-net-info-exchange-04.txt>

      This draft proposes ALTO information model and protocol extensions to
      support application and network resource information exchange for high
      bandwidth applications in partially controlled and controlled
      environments as part of the infrastructure to application information
      exposure (i2aex) initiative.

  "Applicability Statement for Layer 1 Virtual Private Network (L1VPN)
  Enhanced Mode", Sergio Belotti, Don Fedyk, Papadimitriou Dimitri,
  Daniele Ceccarelli, Fatai Zhang, Yuji Tochio, 2013-06-06,
  <draft-belotti-app-statement-l1vpn-em-02.txt>

      This document provides an applicability statement on the use of
      Generalized Multiprotocol Label Switching (GMPLS) protocols and
      mechanisms to satisfy the requirements of the Layer 1 Virtual
      Private Network (L1VPN) Enhanced Mode.
      
      L1VPNs provide customer services and connectivity at layer 1 over
      layer 1 networks. The operation of L1VPNs is divided into the Basic
      Mode and the Enhanced Mode, where the Enhanced Mode of operation may
      also include exchange of routing information between the layer 1
      network and the customer domain.

  "Multipath RTP (MPRTP) attribute in Session Description Protocol", Varun
  Singh, Joerg Ott, Teemu Karkkainen, Ralf Globisch, Thomas Schierl,
  2013-07-14, <draft-singh-mmusic-mprtp-sdp-extension-02.txt>

      Multipath RTP (MPRTP) is an extension to the Real-time Transport
      Protocol (RTP) that allows multi-homed endpoints to take advantage of
      the availability of multiple Internet paths between endpoints to send
      /receive media packets.  This document describes how to express the
      interface advertisement and negotiation during session setup in SDP
      (Session Description Protocol).

  "Turning off IPv4 Using DHCPv6 or Router Advertisements", Simon
  Perreault, Wesley George, Tina Tsou, Tianle Yang, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-perreault-sunset4-noipv4-03.txt>

      This memo defines a new DHCPv6 option and a new Router Advertisement
      option for indicating to a dual-stack host or router that IPv4 is to
      be turned off.

  "Scenarios and Requirements for IP in Intelligent Transportation
  Systems", Alexandru Petrescu, Christophe Janneteau, Michael Boc, Witold
  Klaudel, 2013-10-03, <draft-petrescu-its-scenarios-reqs-03.txt>

      This draft describes scenarios of vehicular communications that are
      considered pertinent to Intelligent Transportation Systems.  In these
      scenarios, the necessity of using IP networking technologies and
      protocols is exposed.

  "LISP Control Plane for Network Virtualization Overlays", Fabio Maino,
  Vina Ermagan, Yves Hertoghs, Dino Farinacci, Michael Smith, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-maino-nvo3-lisp-cp-03.txt>

      The purpose of this draft is to analyze the mapping between the
      Network Virtualization over L3 (NVO3) requirements and the
      capabilities of the Locator/ID Separation Protocol (LISP) control
      plane.  This information is provided as input to the NVO3 analysis of
      the suitability of existing IETF protocols to the NVO3 requirements.

  "Generalized Multiprotocol Label Switching (GMPLS) External Network
  Network Interface (E-NNI): Virtual Link Enhancements for the Overlay
  Model", Igor Bryskin, Wes Doonan, Vishnu Beeram, John Drake, Gert
  Grammel, Manuel Paul, Ruediger Kunze, Friedrich Armbruster, Cyril
  Margaria, Oscar de Dios, Daniele Ceccarelli, 2013-09-12,
  <draft-beeram-ccamp-gmpls-enni-03.txt>

      This memo is a companion document to [RFC4208]. It describes how the
      client domain networking in the overlay model can be enhanced via
      presenting to the client the network domain as an overlay topology
      made of Virtual TE Links.

  "An Acceptable Use Policy for New ICMP Types and Codes", Melinda Shore,
  Carlos Pignataro, 2013-10-21, <draft-shore-icmp-aup-06.txt>

      In this document we provide a basic description of ICMP's role in the
      IP stack and some guidelines for future use.
      
      This document is motivated by concerns about lack of clarity
      concerning when to add new Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP)
      types and/or codes.  These concerns have highlighted a need to
      describe policies for when adding new features to ICMP is desirable
      and when it is not.

  "802.1aq Support over EVPN", David Allan, Jeff Tantsura, Don Fedyk, Ali
  Sajassi, 2013-07-15, <draft-allan-l2vpn-spbm-evpn-04.txt>

      This document describes how Ethernet Shortest Path Bridging MAC mode
      (802.1aq) can be combined with EVPN in a way that interworks with
      PBB-PEs as described in the PBB-EVPN solution in a way that permits
      operational isolation of each Ethernet network subtending an EVPN
      core while supporting full interworking between the different
      variations of Ethernet operation.

  "LSP-Ping Mechanisms for E-VPN and PBB-EVPN", Parag Jain, Sami Boutros,
  Samer Salam, 2013-10-21, <draft-jain-l2vpn-evpn-lsp-ping-02.txt>

      LSP-Ping is a widely deployed Operation, Administration, and
      Maintenance (OAM) mechanism in MPLS networks. This document
      describes mechanisms for detecting data-plane failures using LSP
      Ping in MPLS based E-VPN and PBB-EVPN networks.

  "Use of BGP for routing in large-scale data centers", Petr Lapukhov,
  Ariff Premji, Jon Mitchell, 2013-08-22,
  <draft-lapukhov-bgp-routing-large-dc-06.txt>

      Some network operators build and operate data centers that support
      over one hundred thousand servers.  In this document, such data
      centers are referred to as "large-scale" to differentiate them from
      smaller infrastructures.  Environments of this scale have a unique
      set of network requirements with an emphasis on operational
      simplicity and network stability.  This document summarizes
      operational experience in designing and operating large-scale data
      centers using BGP as the only routing protocol.  The intent is to
      report on a proven and stable routing design that could be leveraged
      by others in the industry.

  "Shared Memory Communications over RDMA", Mike Fox, Constantinos
  Kassimis, Jerry Stevens, 2013-05-31,
  <draft-fox-tcpm-shared-memory-rdma-02.txt>

      This document describes the Shared Memory Communications over RDMA
      (SMC-R) protocol.  This protocol provides RDMA communications to TCP
      endpoints in a manner that is transparent to socket applications.  It
      further provides for dynamic discovery of partner RDMA capabilities
      and dynamic setup of RDMA connections, transparent high availability
      and load balancing when redundant RDMA network paths are available,
      and it maintains many of the traditional TCP/IP qualities of service
      such as filtering that enterprise users demand, as well as TCP socket
      semantics such as urgent data.

  "Applicability of OSPF Topology-Transparent Zone", Huaimo Chen, Renwei
  Li, Gregory Cauchie, So Ning, Vic Liu, Lei Liu, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-chen-ospf-ttz-app-04.txt>

      This document discusses the applicability of "OSPF Topology-
      Transparent Zone".  It briefs the protocol and its operations first,
      and then illustrates the application scenarios of OSPF Topology-
      Transparent Zone.  This document is intended for accompanying "OSPF
      Topology-Transparent Zone" to the Internet standards track.

  "Framework for Point-to-Multipoint MPLS-TP OAM", Yoshinori Koike,
  Takafumi Hamano, Masatoshi Namiki, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-hmk-mpls-tp-p2mp-oam-framework-03.txt>

      The MPLS transport profile (MPLS-TP) is being standardized to enable
      carrier-grade packet transport.
      
      This document discusses and specifies the P2MP framework primarily
      related to OAM and related management in MPLS-TP networks. This
      document mainly refers to RFC5654 and RFC6371. The main focus is on
      the details that are not covered or not clarified in relevant RFCs
      such as RFC5654, RFC5860, RFC5921, RFC5951, RFC6371, and draft-mpls-
      tp-p2mp-framework.
      
      Note: This I-D was made and updated including the discussions in ITU-
      T SG15, which were described in Liaison Statements such as
      (https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1235/)
      
      This document is a product of a joint Internet Engineering Task Force
      (IETF) / International Telecommunications Union Telecommunications
      Standardization Sector (ITU-T) effort to include an MPLS Transport
      Profile within the IETF MPLS and PWE3 architectures to support the
      capabilities and functionalities of a packet transport network.

  "LISP Control-Plane Multicast Signaling", Dino Farinacci, Maria
  Napierala, 2013-09-15, <draft-farinacci-lisp-mr-signaling-03.txt>

      This document describes an alternate method to signal multicast tree
      building among xTRs in multicast capable LISP sites.  This approach
      avoids the need to run a multicast routing protocol on the LISP
      overlay.

  "Extension to the Link Management Protocol (LMP/DWDM -rfc4209) for Dense
  Wavelength Division Multiplexing (DWDM) Optical Line Systems to manage
  application code of optical interface parameters in DWDM application",
  Dharini Hiremagalur, Gert Grammel, John Drake, Gabriele Galimberti,
  Zafar Ali, Ruediger Kunze, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-dharinigert-ccamp-g-698-2-lmp-04.txt>

      This memo defines extensions to LMP(rfc4209) for managing Optical
      parameters associated with Wavelength Division Multiplexing (WDM)
      systems or characterized by the Optical Transport Network (OTN) in
      accordance with the Interface Application Code approach defined in
      ITU-T Recommendation G.698.2.[ITU.G698.2], G.694.1.[ITU.G694.1] and
      its extendsions./>

  "Using Security Posture Assessment to Grant Access to Enterprise Network
  Resources", David Waltermire, Adam Montville, David Harrington,
  2013-07-15, <draft-waltermire-sacm-use-cases-05.txt>

      This memo documents a sampling of use cases for securely aggregating
      configuration and operational data and assessing that data to
      determine an organization's security posture.  From these operational
      use cases, we can derive common functional capabilities and
      requirements to guide development of vendor-neutral, interoperable
      standards for aggregating and assessing data relevant to security
      posture.

  "Transparent SDH/SONET over Packet", Gert Manhoudt, Stephan Roullot, Kin
  Wong, 2013-08-09, <draft-manhoudt-pwe3-tsop-03.txt>

      This document describes the Transparent SDH/SONET over Packet (TSoP)
      mechanism to encapsulate Synchronous Digital Hierarchy (SDH) or
      Synchronous Optical NETwork (SONET) bit-streams in a packet format,
      suitable for Pseudowire (PW) transport over a packet switched network
      (PSN).  The key property of the TSoP  method is that it transports
      the SDH/SONET client signal in its entirety through the PW, i.e., no
      use is made of any specific characteristic of the SONET/SDH signal
      format, other than its bit rate.  The TSoP transparency includes
      transporting the timing properties of the SDH/SONET client signal.
      This ensures a maximum of transparency and a minimum of complexity,
      both in implementation and during operation.

  "Congestion control algorithm for lower latency and lower loss media
  transport", Piers O'Hanlon, Ken Carlberg, 2013-04-24,
  <draft-ohanlon-rmcat-dflow-02.txt>

      This memo provides a design for a congestion control algorithm, for
      media transport, which aims to provide for lower delay and lower loss
      communications.

  "Signaling Virtual Machine Activity to the Network Virtualization Edge",
  Kireeti Kompella, Yakov Rekhter, Thomas Morin, David Black, 2013-04-29,
  <draft-kompella-nvo3-server2nve-02.txt>

      This document proposes a simplified approach for provisioning network
      parameters related to Virtual Machine creation, migration and
      termination on servers.  The idea is to provision the server, then
      have the server signal the requisite parameters to the relevant
      network device(s).  Such an approach reduces the workload on the
      provisioning system and simplifies the data model that the
      provisioning system needs to maintain.  It is also more resilient to
      topology changes in server-network connectivity, for example,
      reconnecting a server to a different network port or switch.

  "MPLS PIM Inter-working", Bisong Tao, 2013-10-03,
  <draft-tao-mpls-pim-interworking-02.txt>

      This document describes a framework for the inter-working between
      Protocol Independent Multicast [PIM] and a leaf-driven MPLS P2MP
      tunnel signaling protocol so that multiple PIM sites around an MPLS
      network can form a single PIM domain without compromising PIM's
      features, scalability, and performance.

  "Stateful Observation in CoAP", Changsha Ma, Peilin Hong, Kaiping Xue,
  2013-06-24, <draft-ma-core-stateful-observe-02.txt>

      The Observe Option allows a CoAP client to observe changes in the
      state of resources and obtain a current representation of the last
      resource state.  To be an observer of an origin server's resources,
      the client is required to register its interest with the server.  A
      successful registration will make the client added into the server's
      observation list, while a failed one MAY drive the client to re-
      register.
      
      However, repeated and frequent re-registrations cannot guarantee the
      client to eventually become an observer of the target server.  In the
      case that the server is unable or unwilling to accept an observer,
      the time-intensive re-registrations will just bring redundant
      messages in the constrained network and considerable energy
      consumption on both the client and the server.
      
      This memo defines a new CoAP option, State, for providing stateful
      observation on the resources of CoAP servers.  By observing the state
      of the server in terms of the Observe Option, a client can explicitly
      learn when the server will not actively reject an observation
      registration, and then can wisely performs the re-registration.  This
      avoids the potential registration flooding that causes considerable
      network overhead and energy consumption on the constrained nodes.

  "Management Information Base for Virtual Machines Controlled by a
  Hypervisor", Hirochika Asai, Michael MacFaden, Jrgen Schnwlder, Yuji
  Sekiya, Keiichi Shima, Tina Tsou, Cathy Zhou, Hiroshi Esaki, 2013-10-12,
  <draft-asai-vmm-mib-05.txt>

      This document defines a portion of the Management Information Base
      (MIB) for use with network management protocols in the Internet
      community.  In particular, this specifies objects for managing
      virtual machines controlled by a hypervisor (a.k.a. virtual machine
      monitor).

  "KARP KMP: Simplified Peer Authentication", Uma Chunduri, Albert Tian,
  Ari Keranen, Tero Kivinen, 2013-10-19,
  <draft-chunduri-karp-kmp-router-fingerprints-04.txt>

      This document describes the usage of Router Fingerprint
      Authentication (RFA) with public keys as a potential peer
      authentication method with KARP pair wise and group Key Management
      Protocols (KMPs).  The advantage of RFA is, it neither requires out-
      of-band, mutually agreeable symmetric keys nor a full PKI based
      system (trust anchor or CA certificates) for mutual authentication of
      peers with KARP KMP deployments.  Usage of Router Fingerprints give a
      significant operational improvement from symmetric key based systems
      and yet provide a secure authentication technique.

  "Information Model for Wavelength Switched Optical Networks (WSONs) with
  Impairments Validation", Giovanni Martinelli, Xian Zhang, Gabriele
  Galimberti, Andrea Zanardi, Domenico Siracusa, 2013-07-13,
  <draft-martinelli-ccamp-wson-iv-info-02.txt>

      This document defines an information model to support Impairment-
      Aware (IA) Routing and Wavelength Assignment (RWA) function.  This
      operation might be required in Wavelength Switched Optical Networks
      (WSON) that already support RWA and the information model defined
      here goes in addition and it is fully compatible with the already
      defined information model for impairment-free RWA process in WSON.
      
      This information model shall support all control plane architectural
      options defined for WSON with impairment validation.

  "Information Encoding for WSON with Impairments Validation", Giovanni
  Martinelli, Andrea Zanardi, Xian Zhang, Gabriele Galimberti, Domenico
  Siracusa, 2013-07-13, <draft-martinelli-ccamp-wson-iv-encode-02.txt>

      Impairment-Aware (IA) Routing and Wavelength Assignment (RWA)
      function might be required in Wavelength Switched Optical Networks
      (WSON) that already support RWA.  This document defines proper
      encoding to support this operation.  It goes in addition to the
      available impairment-free WSON encoding and it is fully compatible
      with it.
      
      As the information model, the encoding is independent from control
      plane architectures and protocol implementations.  Its definitions
      can be used in related protocol extensions.

  "IPv6 Home Network Naming Delegation", Daniel Migault, Wouter Cloetens,
  Chris Griffiths, Ralf Weber, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-mglt-homenet-front-end-naming-delegation-03.txt,.pdf>

      CPEs are designed to provide IP connectivity to home networks.  Most
      CPEs assigns IP addresses to the nodes of the home network which
      makes it a good candidate for hosting the naming service.  With IPv6,
      the naming service makes nodes reachable from the home network as
      well as from the Internet.
      
      However, CPEs have not been designed to host such a naming service
      exposed on the Internet.  This MAY expose the CPEs to resource
      exhaustion which would make the home network unreachable, and most
      probably would also affect the home network inner communications.
      
      In addition, DNSSEC management and configuration may not be well
      understood or mastered by regular end users.  Misconfiguration MAY
      also results in naming service disruption, thus these end users MAY
      prefer to rely on third party naming providers.
      
      This document describes a homenet naming architecture where the CPEs
      manage the DNS zone associates to its home network, and outsource
      both DNSSEC management and naming service on the Internet to a third
      party designated as the Public Authoritative Servers.

  "A Media-based Traceroute Function for the Session Initiation Protocol
  (SIP)", Hadriel Kaplan, 2013-06-15,
  <draft-kaplan-straw-sip-traceroute-01.txt>

      SIP already provides the ability to perform hop-by-hop traceroute
      for SIP messages using the Max-Forwards header field, in order to
      determine the reachability path of requests to a target.  A
      mechanism for media-loopback calls has also been defined separately,
      which enables test calls to be generated which result in media being
      looped back to the originator.  This document describes a means of
      performing hop-by-hop traceroute-style test calls using the media-
      loopback mechanism, in order to test the media path when SIP
      sessions go through media-relaying B2BUAs.

  "Best practices and Requirements for delivering Long Tail personalized
  content delivery over CDN Interconnections", ramki, Mian Li, Bhumip
  Khasnabish, Ge Chen, 2013-05-29, <draft-krishnan-cdni-long-tail-05.txt>

      The content desire of users is evolving from most popular to long
      tail personalized content. This document discusses the best
      practices and requirements for delivering long tail personalized
      content in CDN Interconnection scenarios.

  "Guidelines for Writing an IANA Considerations Section in RFCs",
  Michelle Cotton, Barry Leiba, Thomas Narten, 2013-07-31,
  <draft-leiba-cotton-iana-5226bis-03.txt>

      Many protocols make use of points of extensibility that use constants
      to identify various protocol parameters.  To ensure that the values
      used in these fields do not have conflicting uses, and to promote
      interoperability, their allocation is often coordinated by a central
      authority.  For IETF protocols, that role is filled by the Internet
      Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA).
      
      To make assignments in a given namespace prudently, IANA needs
      guidance describing the conditions under which new values should be
      assigned, as well as when and how modifications to existing values
      can be made.  This document defines a framework for the documentation
      of these guidelines by specification authors, in order to assure that
      the guidance given to IANA is clear and addresses the various issues
      that are likely in the operation of a registry.
      
      This is the third edition, and obsoletes RFC 5226.

  "Request For Action to Establish an Enhanced Cooperation Task Force and
  a Preparatory Working-Group", Norbert Bollow, 2013-08-30,
  <draft-bollow-ectf-07.txt>

      This memo calls for the creation of a new governance forum named
      "Enhanced Cooperation Task Force" (ECTF).  The main purpose of the
      ECTF is to facilitate consensus-seeking discussions regarding
      information society governance actions that will be taken by national
      governments and international organizations.

  "Authenticated Denial of Existence in the DNS", R. Gieben, Matthijs
  Mekking, 2013-10-14, <draft-gieben-auth-denial-of-existence-dns-03.txt>

      Authenticated denial of existence allows a resolver to validate that
      a certain domain name does not exist.  It is also used to signal that
      a domain name exists, but does not have the specific RR type you were
      asking for.  When returning a negative DNSSEC response, a name server
      usually includes up to two NSEC records.  With NSEC3 this amount is
      three.  This document provides additional background commentary and
      some context for the NSEC and NSEC3 mechanisms used by DNSSEC to
      provide authenticated denial of existence responses

  "HTTP/2.0 Discussion: Stored Header Encoding", James Snell, 2013-08-14,
  <draft-snell-httpbis-bohe-13.txt>

      This memo describes a proposed alternative optimized encoding for
      ordered sets of header field (name,value) pairs in HTTP/2 HEADERS and
      PUSH_PROMISE frames.

  "OSPF-TE extensions for MLNMRN based on OTN", Khuzema Pithewan, Rajan
  Rao, 2013-10-19, <draft-rao-ccamp-mlnmrn-otn-ospfte-ext-03.txt>

      This document specifies OSPF extensions for multi-layer/multi-region
      where one of the regions is multi-layer e.g. OTN, SONET/SDH.

  "Web Cache Communication Protocol V2, Revision 1", Douglas McLaggan,
  2012-08-02, <draft-mclaggan-wccp-v2rev1-00.txt>

      This document describes version 2 of the Web Cache Communication
      Protocol (WCCP).  The WCCP V2 protocol specifies interactions between
      one or more routers and one or more web-caches.  The interaction may
      take place within an IPv4 or IPv6 network.  The purpose of the
      interaction is to establish and maintain the transparent redirection
      of selected types of traffic flowing through a group of routers (or
      similar devices).  The selected traffic is redirected to a group of
      web-caches (or other traffic optimisation devices) with the aim of
      optimising resource usage and lowering response times.
      
      The protocol does not specify any interaction between the web-caches
      within a group or between a web-cache and a web-server.

  "CDNI Footprint & Capabilities Advertisement Interface", Kevin Ma,
  2013-10-21, <draft-ma-cdni-capabilities-04.txt>

      Content Distribution Network Interconnection (CDNI) is predicated on
      the ability of downstream CDNs (dCDNs) to handle end-user requests in
      a functionally equivalent manner to the upstream CDN (uCDN).  The
      uCDN must be able to assess the ability of the dCDN to handle
      individual requests.  The CDNI Footprint & Capabilities Advertisement
      interface (FCI) is provided for the advertisement of capabilities and
      the footprints to which they apply by the dCDN to the uCDN.  This
      document describes an approach to implementing the CDNI FCI.

  "Privacy and Identifiers", S Moonesamy, 2013-09-14,
  <draft-moonesamy-privacy-identifiers-01.txt>

      The Internet provides the ability for information to be spread beyond
      geographical boundaries at the speed of light.  Once information is
      available over the Internet it leaves the private realm.  If the
      information can be used to identify a person it can affect the
      privacy of the individual.  There are cases when it can increase the
      physical risk to the individual or where it can have a negative
      financial impact.  Some types of information can be an embarassment
      to an individual and negatively affect the person's reputation.
      
      This document discusses about identifiers in the context of privacy.

  "LLCPS", Pascal Urien, 2013-07-12, <draft-urien-tls-llcp-02.txt>

      This document describes the implementation, named LLCPS, of the TLS
      protocol over the NFC (Near Field Communication) LLCP (Logical Link
      Control Protocol) layer. The NFC peer to peer (P2P) protocol may be
      used by any application that needs communication between two devices
      at very small distances (a few centimeters). LLCPS enforces a strong
      security in NFC P2P exchanges, and may be deployed for many
      services, in the Internet Of Things (IoT) ecosystem, such as
      payments, access control or ticketing operations. Applications
      secured by LLCPS are identified by the service name
      "urn:nfc:sn:tls:x" where x is the application name.

  "RPL Routing Pathology In a Network With a Mix of Nodes Operating in
  Storing and Non-Storing Modes", JeongGil Ko, Jongsoo Jeong, Jongjun
  Park, Jong Jun, Naesoo Kim, Omprakash Gnawali, 2013-08-13,
  <draft-ko-roll-mix-network-pathology-03.txt>

      The RPL specification allows nodes running with storing or non-
      storing modes to operate in the same network.  We describe how such a
      mix can result in network partitioning even when there are plenty of
      physical links available in the network.  The partitioning affects
      both upwards (nodes to root) and downwards (root to leaf) traffic.
      This routing pathology stems from a recommendation made in the RPL
      specification forcing nodes with different modes of operation to join
      the RPL network as leaf nodes only.  We propose a solution that
      modifies RPL by mandating that all the nodes parse and interpret
      source routing headers and storing mode nodes to sometimes act like a
      non-storing mode root by attaching source routing headers.

  "Babel HMAC Cryptographic Authentication", Denis Ovsienko, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-ovsienko-babel-hmac-authentication-05.txt,.pdf>

      This document describes a cryptographic authentication mechanism for
      Babel routing protocol, updating, but not superceding RFC 6126.  The
      mechanism allocates two new TLV types for the authentication data,
      uses HMAC and is both optional and backward compatible.

  "The Open vSwitch Database Management Protocol", Ben Pfaff, Bruce Davie,
  2013-10-03, <draft-pfaff-ovsdb-proto-04.txt>

      Open vSwitch is an open source software switch designed to be used as
      a vswitch (virtual switch) in virtualized server environments.  A
      vswitch forwards traffic between different virtual machines (VMs) on
      the same physical host and also forwards traffic between VMs and the
      physical network.  Open vSwitch is open to programmatic extension and
      control using OpenFlow and the OVSDB (Open vSwitch Database)
      management protocol.  This document defines the OVSDB management
      protocol.  The Open vSwitch project includes open source OVSDB client
      and server implementations.

  "Military Message Handling System (MMHS) over SMTP", Alexey Melnikov,
  Graeme Lunt, Alan Ross, 2013-10-21, <draft-melnikov-mmhs-profile-05.txt>

      A Military Message Handling System (MMHS) processes formal messages
      ensuring release, distribution, security, and timely delivery across
      national and international strategic and tactical networks.  The MMHS
      Elements of Service are defined as a set of extensions to the ITU-T
      X.400 (1992) international standards and are specified in STANAG 4406
      Edition 2 or ACP 123.  This document specifies how a comparable
      messaging service can be provided using SMTP and its extensions.

  "CoAP Content-Type Parameter Option", Yusuke Doi, Kerry Lynn,
  2013-08-08, <draft-doi-core-parameter-option-03.txt>

      Content-Types may have 'parameter' to make fine-grained description
      of contents.  The CoAP Accept Content-Type Parameter Option (Accept-
      CT-Parameter Option) is CoAP options to add a parameter to a content
      type specified in CoAP Accept Options.

  "IMAP SUBMIT Extension", Jan Kundrat, 2013-08-27,
  <draft-kundrat-imap-submit-02.txt>

      This document extends the IMAP protocol with a feature to submit
      e-mail messages for delivery.  It is intended to serve as a better
      alternative to the URLAUTH/BURL approach.

  "IMAP Extension for Incremental Threading (INCTHREAD)", Jan Kundrat,
  2013-08-27, <draft-kundrat-incthread-02.txt>

      This document describes the INCTHREAD IMAP extension which enables
      clients to retrieve incremental updates of the mailbox threading.
      The extension repurposes the ESEARCH response for passing along the
      threading information and builds on top of Arnt Gulbrandsen's work on
      the INTHREAD search key.  The UID THREAD command is also extended to
      allow activating this extension.  Together, these changes make it
      possible for clients not to fetch the complete mailbox threading each
      time a new message arrives.

  "Resolution Constraints in Web Real Time Communications", Harald
  Alvestrand, 2013-08-26, <draft-alvestrand-constraints-resolution-03.txt>

      This document specifies the constraints necessary for a Javascript
      application to successfully indicate to a browser that supports
      WebRTC what resolutions it desires on a video stream.
      
      It also discusses the possible use of SDP to carry that information
      between browsers.

  "Automated Service Configuration", Andrew McMillan, Cyrus Daboo,
  2013-06-28, <draft-daboo-aggregated-service-discovery-03.txt>

      This specification describes how clients can retrieve configuration
      for multiple services with a minimum of user-provided information,
      and as short as possible sequence of queries, and with a minimum of
      overhead for administrators of the services.

  "Cloud Networking: VPN Applicability and NVo3 Gap Analysis", Nabil
  Bitar, Florin Balus, Marc Lasserre, Wim Henderickx, Ali Sajassi, Luyuan
  Fang, Yuichi Ikejiri, Mircea Pisica, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-bitar-nvo3-vpn-applicability-02.txt>

      Multi-tenant data centers and clouds provide computing,
      storage and network resources dedicated per tenant. The
      current focus in the evolution of multi-tenant data-center and
      cloud networks is to (1) support a large number of tenants
      with a large number of communicating systems, (2) provide
      isolation among tenant virtual networks, (3) provide for
      efficient network utilization, and (4) support virtual machine
      mobility and network elasticity that match compute and storage
      elasticity.
      
      
      The NVo3 work effort is initially targeted to identify the
      requirements for large multi-tenant data centers, and develop
      a framework architecture that addresses those requirements. In
      addition, it is targeted to identify existing or evolving
      solutions used in cloud networking, their applicability to
      NVo3, and any gaps that they may have in addressing the NVo3
      requirements. This document describes the applicability of
      existing work in various IETF Working Groups (e.g., RFCs and
      drafts developed or evolving in IETF L2VPN and L3VPN Working
      Groups) to cloud networking and NVo3, as well as the gaps and
      problems that need to be further addressed.

  "YANG Data Model for Stateless Packet Filter Configuration", Lisa Huang,
  Alex Clemm, Andy Bierman, 2013-09-04, <draft-huang-netmod-acl-03.txt>

      A Stateless Packet Filter (SPF) determines which packets are allowed
      to transit a system according to a set of rules, applying special
      actions to packets as necessary.  This document defines a YANG data
      model for the configuration of Stateless Packet Filters on a device.

  "Resource-Oriented Lightweight Indicator Exchange", John Field,
  2013-08-15, <draft-field-mile-rolie-02.txt>

      This document defines a resource-oriented approach to cyber security
      information sharing.  Using this approach, a CSIRT or other
      stakeholder may share and exchange representations of cyber security
      incidents, indicators, and other related information as Web-
      addressable resources.  The transport protocol binding is specified
      as HTTP(S) with a MIME media type of Atom+XML.  An appropriate set of
      link relation types specific to cyber security information sharing is
      defined.  The resource representations leverage the existing IODEF
      [RFC5070] and RID [RFC6545] specifications as appropriate.
      Coexistence with deployments that conform to existing specifications
      including RID [RFC6545] and Transport of Real-time Inter-network
      Defense (RID) Messages over HTTP/TLS [RFC6546] is supported via
      appropriate use of HTTP status codes.

  "SCIM Directory Services", Phil Hunt, 2013-08-01,
  <draft-hunt-scim-directory-01.txt>

      This document describes a directory server that implements the SCIM
      protocol and schema [, its capabilities and access control model],
      and optional support for LDAPv3 protocol.  This specification extends
      SCIM from provisioning to a general purpose access protocol in
      support of data management applications (e.g. self-service systems)
      and RESTful clients that need read/write access to a directory on the
      Internet, between domains, or within a cloud.

  "ENUM Service Registration for acct URI", Laurent Goix, Kepeng Li,
  2013-10-10, <draft-goix-appsawg-enum-acct-uri-03.txt>

      This document registers a Telephone Number Mapping (ENUM) service for
      'acct:' URIs (Uniform Resource Identifiers).

  "eXtensible Access Control Markup Language (XACML) XML Media Type",
  Remon Sinnema, Erik Wilde, 2013-09-12,
  <draft-sinnema-xacml-media-type-06.txt>

      This specification registers an XML-based media type for the
      eXtensible Access Control Markup Language (XACML).
      
      Note to Readers
      
      This draft should be discussed on the apps-discuss mailing list [1].
      
      Online access to all versions and files is available on github [2].

  "Experience from MAP-T Testing", Edwin Cordeiro, Rodrigo Carnier,
  Antonio Moreiras, 2013-09-26,
  <draft-cordeiro-softwire-experience-mapt-02.txt>

      This document describes the testing result of a network using MAP-T
      dual translation solution, by providing an overview of user
      applications' behavior with a shared IPv4 address.
      
      The MAP-T software is from CERNET Center and the test environment is
      on NIC.br network with real and virtualized machines.

  "Retrieving the Capabilities of a PCP-controlled Device", Mohamed
  Boucadair, Tirumaleswar Reddy, 2013-05-30,
  <draft-boucadair-pcp-capability-02.txt>

      This document extends Port Control Protocol (PCP) with the ability to
      retrieve the capabilities of PCP-controlled device: CAPABILITY
      Option.

  "IP/MPLS Connectivity Provisioning Profile", Mohamed Boucadair,
  Christian Jacquenet, Ning Wang, 2012-09-25,
  <draft-boucadair-connectivity-provisioning-profile-02.txt>

      This document describes the Connectivity Provisioning Profile (CPP)
      and proposes a CPP Template to capture IP connectivity requirements
      to be met in the context of delivery of services (e.g.  Voice over IP
      or IP TV) which are to be plugged upon an IP/MPLS infrastructure.
      The CPP defines the set of IP transfer parameters to be supported by
      the underlying IP/MPLS transport network together with a reachability
      scope and bandwidth/capacity needs.  Appropriate performance metrics
      such as one-way delay, one-way delay variation are used to
      characterize an IP transfer service.  Both global and restricted
      reachability scopes can be captured in the CPP.
      
      Having the generic CPP template allows for (1) automating the process
      of service negotiation and activation, thus accelerating service
      provisioning, (2) setting the (traffic) objectives of Traffic
      Engineering functions and service management functions and (3)
      enriching service and network management systems with 'decision-
      making' capabilities based on negotiated/offered CPPs.

  "MIF API for Connection Management", Pierrick Seite, Juan-Carlos Ziga,
  2013-08-14, <draft-seite-mif-cm-02.txt>

      There is currently a need to present a coherent connection management
      behaviour for different terminal platforms (e.g. mobile phones, PCs,
      tablets, etc.).  This document discusses how a connection manager can
      use the MIF API to provide this coherent behaviour and enhance the
      end user's experience when a terminal is able to connect to multiple
      interfaces.  The goal of this document is not to define a connection
      manager specification, but to focus on the interaction with the MIF
      API and suggest relevant generic messages for the interface.
      
      This document is for discussion and its intention is to help
      clarifying the utilization of the MIF API in a connection management
      context and propose some relevant considerations.

  "Design Discussion and Comparison of Replay-Attack Protection Mechanisms
  for BGPSEC", Kotikalapudi Sriram, Doug Montgomery, 2013-09-23,
  <draft-sriram-replay-protection-design-discussion-02.txt>

      The BGPSEC protocol requires a method for protection from replay
      attacks, at least to control the window of exposure.  In the context
      of BGPSEC, a replay attack occurs when an adversary suppresses a
      prefix withdrawal (implicit or explicit) or replays a previously
      received BGPSEC announcement for a prefix that has since been
      withdrawn.  This informational document provides design discussion
      and comparison of multiple alternative replay-attack protection
      mechanisms weighing their pros and cons.  It is meant to be a
      companion document to the standards track I-D.-ietf-sidr-bgpsec-
      rollover that will specify a method to be used with BGPSEC for
      replay-attack protection.

  "Autonomous System (AS) Migration Features and Their Effects on the BGP
  AS_PATH Attribute", Wesley George, Shane Amante, 2013-07-10,
  <draft-ga-idr-as-migration-02.txt>

      This draft discusses common methods of managing an ASN migration
      using some BGP feaures that while commonly-used are not formally part
      of the BGP4 protocol specification and may be vendor-specific in
      exact implementation.  It is necessary to document these de facto
      standards to ensure that they are properly supported in BGPSec.

  "Mechanisms for Optimal LAG/ECMP Component Link Utilization in
  Networks", ramki, Sanjay Khanna, Lucy Yong, Anoop Ghanwani, So Ning,
  Bhumip Khasnabish, 2013-04-24,
  <draft-krishnan-opsawg-large-flow-load-balancing-08.txt>

      Demands on networking infrastructure are growing exponentially; the
      drivers are bandwidth hungry rich media applications, inter-data
      center communications, etc. In this context, it is important to
      optimally use the bandwidth in wired networks that extensively use
      LAG/ECMP techniques for bandwidth scaling. This draft explores some
      of the mechanisms useful for achieving this.

  "CoAP Minimum Request Interval", Bert Greevenbosch, 2013-04-26,
  <draft-greevenbosch-core-minimum-request-interval-01.txt>

      This document defines an "Minimum-Request-Interval" option for CoAP,
      which can be used to negotiate the minimum time between two
      subsequent requests within a single client and server pair.  It can
      be used for flow and congestion control, reducing the consumption of
      server and network resources when needed.
      
      Note
      
      Discussion and suggestions for improvement are requested, and should
      be sent to core@ietf.org.

  "Multihoming in Homenet", Wassim Haddad, Damien Saucez, 2013-09-27,
  <draft-haddad-homenet-multihomed-02.txt>

      Multihoming is becoming more and more popular in residential and
      small office networks indicating the absolute necessity of fully
      supporting multihoming in Homenet.  While the approach followed in
      Homenet is to delegate multihoming management to hosts, we propose to
      enable multihoming in Homenet by the mean of the infrastructure
      instead of the hosts.

  "Making BGP filtering a habit: Impact on policies", Camilo Cardona,
  Pierre Francois, 2013-07-09, <draft-cardona-filtering-threats-02.txt>

      Network operators define their BGP policies based on the business
      relationships that they maintain with their peers.  By limiting the
      propagation of BGP prefixes, an autonomous system avoids the
      existence of flows between BGP peers that do not provide any
      economical gain.  This draft describes how undesired flows can emerge
      in autonomous systems due to the filtering of overlapping BGP
      prefixes by neighboring domains.

  "Multiple Synchronization Sources (SSRC) in SDP Media Descriptions",
  Christer Holmberg, Magnus Westerlund, BoB, Fredrik Jansson, 2013-09-19,
  <draft-westerlund-mmusic-max-ssrc-02.txt>

      This document describes use-cases where endpoints, for a given media
      type, use multiple media sources.  It also describes how endpoints
      normally support media sources, and limitations associated with the
      support of multiple sources.
      
      This document also defines two new SDP attributes, "max-send-ssrc"
      and "max-recv-ssrc".  The attributes allows an entity to, for a given
      media description, indicate sending and receiving capabilities of
      multiple media sources, based on codec usage .

  "NFSv4 Multi-Domain FedFS Requirements", Andy Adamson, Nico Williams,
  2013-10-17, <draft-adamson-nfsv4-multi-domain-federated-fs-reqs-03.txt>

      This document describes constraints to the NFSv4.0 and NFSv4.1
      protocols as well as the use of multi-domain capable file systems,
      name resolution services, and security services required to fully
      enable a multi-domain NFSv4 federated file system.

  "Use of the Prefer Header Field in Web Distributed Authoring and
  Versioning (WebDAV)", Kenneth Murchison, 2013-09-12,
  <draft-murchison-webdav-prefer-05.txt>

      This specification defines how the HTTP Prefer header field can be
      used by a WebDAV client to request that certain behaviors be employed
      by a server while constructing a response to a successful request.
      
      Editorial Note (To be removed by RFC Editor before publication)
      
      Please send comments to the Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning
      (WebDAV) mailing list at <mailto:w3c-dist-auth@w3.org> [1], which may
      be joined by sending a message with subject "subscribe" to <mailto
      :w3c-dist-auth-request@w3.org> [2].  This mailing list is archived at
      <http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-dist-auth/> [3].

  "Abstract", Ahmed Bashandy, Clarence Filsfils, Prodosh Mohapatra,
  2013-10-21, <draft-rtgwg-bgp-pic-02.txt>

      In the network comprising thousands of iBGP peers exchanging millions
      of routes, many routes are reachable via more than one path. Given
      the large scaling targets, it is desirable to restore traffic after
      failure in a time period that does not depend on the number of BGP
      prefixes. In this document we proposed a technique by which traffic
      can be re-routed to ECMP or pre-calculated backup paths in a
      timeframe that does not depend on the number of BGP prefixes. The
      objective is achieved through organizing the forwarding chains in a
      hierarchical manner and sharing forwarding elements among the maximum
      possible number of routes. The proposed technique achieves prefix
      independent convergence while ensuring incremental deployment,
      complete transparency and automation, and zero management and
      provisioning effort

  "ForCES Model Extension", Evangelos Haleplidis, 2013-07-08,
  <draft-haleplidis-forces-model-extension-04.txt>

      Forwarding and Control Element Separation (ForCES) defines an
      architectural framework and associated protocols to standardize
      information exchange between the control plane and the forwarding
      plane in a ForCES Network Element (ForCES NE).  RFC5812 has defined
      the ForCES Model provides a formal way to represent the capabilities,
      state, and configuration of forwarding elements within the context of
      the ForCES protocol, so that control elements (CEs) can control the
      FEs accordingly.  More specifically, the model describes the logical
      functions that are present in an FE, what capabilities these
      functions support, and how these functions are or can be
      interconnected.
      
      RFC5812 has been around for two years and experience in its use has
      shown room for small extensions without a need to alter the protocol
      while retaining backward compatibility with older xml libraries.
      This document extends the model to allow complex datatypes for
      metadata, optional default values for datatypes and optional access
      types for structures.  The document also introduces three new
      features, bitmap as a new datatype, a new event condition
      BecomesEqualTo and LFB properties.

  "JSON Predicates", James Snell, 2013-09-24,
  <draft-snell-json-test-07.txt>

      JSON Predicates defines a syntax for serializing various predicate
      expressions as JSON Objects.

  "Available Routing Constructs", Pascal Thubert, Patrice Bellagamba,
  2013-10-18, <draft-thubert-rtgwg-arc-01.txt>

      This draft introduces the concept of ARC, a two-edged routing
      construct that forms its own fault isolation and recovery domain.
      The new paradigm can be leveraged to improve the network utilization
      and resiliency for unicast and multicast traffic in multiple
      environments.

  "A Mechanism for Diameter Overload Control", Adam Roach, Eric McMurry,
  2013-05-17, <draft-roach-dime-overload-ctrl-03.txt>

      When a Diameter server or agent becomes overloaded, it needs to be
      able to gracefully reduce its load, typically by informing clients to
      reduce or stop sending traffic for some period of time.  Otherwise,
      it must continue to expend resources parsing and responding to
      Diameter messages.
      
      This document proposes a concrete, application-independent mechanism
      to address the challenge of communicating load and overload state
      among Diameter peers, and specifies an algorithm for load abatement
      to address such overload conditions as they occur.  The load
      abatement algorithm is extensible, allowing for future documents to
      define additional load abatement approaches.

  "Topology API Use Cases", Jan Medved, Thomas Nadeau, Shane Amante,
  2013-08-16, <draft-amante-irs-topology-use-cases-01.txt>

      This document describes use cases for gathering routing, forwarding
      and policy information, (hereafter referred to as topology
      information), about the network.  It describes several applications
      that need to view the topology of the underlying physical or logical
      network.  This document further demonstrates a need for a "Topology
      Manager" and related functions that collects topology data from
      network elements and other data sources, coalesces the collected data
      into a coherent view of the overall network topology, and normalizes
      the network topology view for use by clients -- namely, applications
      that consume topology information.

  "Use cases for MAP-T", Roberta Maglione, Wojciech Dec, Ida Leung, Edwin
  Mallette, 2013-10-10, <draft-maglione-softwire-map-t-scenarios-03.txt>

      The Softwire working group is currently discussing both encapsulation
      and translation based stateless IPv4/IPv6 solutions in order to be
      able to provide IPv4 connectivity to customers in an IPv6-Only
      environment.
      
      The purpose of this document is to describe some operational use
      cases that would benefit from a translation based approach and
      highlights the operational benefits that a translation based solution
      would allow.

  "Happy Eyeballs Extension for ICE", Tirumaleswar Reddy, Prashanth Patil,
  Dan Wing, 2013-10-08, <draft-reddy-mmusic-ice-happy-eyeballs-03.txt>

      This document describes an algorithm that makes Interactive
      Connectivity Establishment (ICE) connectivity checks more responsive
      by reducing delays in dual-stack host ICE connectivity checks when
      there is a path failure for an address family preferred by the
      application or by the operating system.  As IPv6 is usually preferred
      over IPv4, the procedures in this document helps avoid user-
      noticeable delays when the IPv6 path is broken or excessively slow.

  "Add 100.64.0.0/10 prefixes to IPv4 Locally-Served DNS Zones Registry.",
  Mark Andrews, 2013-10-08, <draft-andrews-dnsop-rfc6598-rfc6303-03.txt>

      RFC6598 specified that: "Reverse DNS queries for Shared Address Space
      addresses [100.64.0.0/10] MUST NOT be forwarded to the global DNS
      infrastructure."
      
      This document formally directs IANA to add the associated zones to
      the "IPv4 Locally-Served DNS Zones Registry" to prevent such queries
      accidently leaking to the global DNS infrastructure.

  "Modeling JSON Text with YANG", Ladislav Lhotka, 2013-09-23,
  <draft-lhotka-netmod-yang-json-02.txt>

      This document defines rules for presenting configuration and
      operational state data defined using YANG as JSON text.  It does so
      by specifying a procedure for translating the subset of YANG-
      compatible XML documents to JSON text, and vice versa.

  "Parallel NFS (pNFS) Lustre Layout Operations", Sorin Faibish, Peng Tao,
  2013-05-05, <draft-faibish-nfsv4-pnfs-lustre-layout-05.txt>

      Parallel NFS (pNFS) extends Network File System version 4.1(NFSv4.1)
      to allow clients to directly access file data on the storage used by
      the NFSv4.1 server. This ability to bypass the server for data
      access can increase both performance and parallelism, but requires
      additional client functionality for data access, some of which is
      dependent on the class of storage used, a.k.a. the Layout Type. The
      main pNFS operations and data types in NFSv4 Minor version 1 specify
      a layout-type-independent layer; layout-type-specific information is
      conveyed using opaque data structures whose internal structure is
      further defined by the particular layout type specification. This
      document specifies the NFSv4.1 Lustre pNFS Layout Type as a
      companion to the main NFSv4 Minor version 1 specification.

  "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) Option for Port Set
  Assignment", Qiong, Yiu Lee, Qi Sun, Gabor Bajko, Mohamed Boucadair,
  2013-10-13, <draft-sun-dhc-port-set-option-02.txt>

      Because of the exhaustion of the IPv4 address space, several
      techniques have been proposed to share the same IPv4 address among
      several uses.  As an alternative to introducing a level of NAT in the
      provider's core network, this document provides a mechanism to assign
      non-overlapping layer 4 port sets to users assigned with the same
      IPv4 address: Port Set DHCPv4 Option.

  "HTTP Link and Unlink Methods", James Snell, 2013-10-01,
  <draft-snell-link-method-05.txt>

      This specification defines the semantics of the LINK and UNLINK HTTP
      methods.

  "SCIM Use Cases", Phil Hunt, Bhumip Khasnabish, Anthony Nadalin, Zachary
  Zeltsan, Kepeng Li, 2013-08-25, <draft-zeltsan-scim-use-cases-02.txt>

      This document lists the user scenarios and use cases of System for
      Cross-domain Identity Management (SCIM).

  "The application/stream+json Media Type", James Snell, 2012-10-11,
  <draft-snell-activity-streams-type-01.txt>

      This specification defines and registers the application/stream+json
      Content Type for the JSON Activity Streams format.

  "Provisioning Message Authentication Key for PCP using PANA
  (Encapsulation Approach)", Yoshihiro Ohba, Alper Yegin, Subir Das,
  2013-07-02, <draft-ohba-pcp-pana-encap-01.txt>

      This document specifies a mechanism for provisioning PCP (Port
      Control Protocol) message authentication key by encapsulating PANA
      (Protocol for carrying Authentication for Network Access) in PCP.

  "ForCES Packet Parallelization", Evangelos Haleplidis, Joel Halpern,
  2013-09-26, <draft-haleplidis-forces-packet-parallelization-03.txt>

      Forwarding and Control Element Separation (ForCES) defines an
      architectural framework and associated protocols to standardize
      information exchange between the control plane and the forwarding
      plane in a ForCES Network Element (ForCES NE).  RFC5812 has defined
      the ForCES Model provides a formal way to represent the capabilities,
      state, and configuration of forwarding elements within the context of
      the ForCES protocol, so that control elements (CEs) can control the
      FEs accordingly.  More specifically, the model describes the logical
      functions that are present in an FE, what capabilities these
      functions support, and how these functions are or can be
      interconnected.
      
      Many network devices support parallel packet processing.  This
      document describes how ForCES can model a network device's
      parallelization datapath.

  "PCEP Extensions for PCE-initiated LSP Setup in a Stateful PCE Model",
  Edward Crabbe, Ina Minei, Siva Sivabalan, Robert Varga, 2013-10-11,
  <draft-crabbe-pce-pce-initiated-lsp-03.txt>

      The Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) provides
      mechanisms for Path Computation Elements (PCEs) to perform path
      computations in response to Path Computation Clients (PCCs) requests.
      
      The extensions described in [I-D.ietf-pce-stateful-pce] provide
      stateful control of Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Traffic
      Engineering Label Switched Paths (TE LSP) via PCEP, for a model where
      the PCC delegates control over one or more locally configured LSPs to
      the PCE.  This document describes the creation and deletion of PCE-
      initiated LSPs under the stateful PCE model.

  "Applying Available Routing Constructs to bicasting", Pascal Thubert,
  IJsbrand Wijnands, 2013-10-18, <draft-thubert-rtgwg-arc-bicast-01.txt>

      This draft introduces methods that leverage the concept of ARC to
      enable bicasting operations.

  "ForCES Inter-FE LFB", DJ, Jamal Hadi Salim, 2013-07-14,
  <draft-joachimpillai-forces-interfelfb-02.txt>

      Forwarding and Control Element Separation (ForCES) defines an
      architectural framework and associated protocols to standardize
      information exchange between the control plane and the forwarding
      plane in a ForCES Network Element (ForCES NE).  RFC5812 has defined
      the ForCES Model which provides a formal way to represent the
      capabilities, state, and configuration of forwarding elements(FEs)
      within the context of the ForCES protocol.  More specifically, the
      model describes the logical functions that are present in an FE, what
      capabilities these functions support, and how these functions are or
      can be interconnected.  The control elements (CEs) can control the
      FEs using the ForCES model definition.
      
      The ForCES WG charter has been extended to allow the LFB topology to
      be across FEs.  This documents describes a non-intrusive way to
      extend the LFB topology across FEs.

  "Wired and Wireless IPv6 Neighbor Discovery Optimizations", Samita
  Chakrabarti, Erik Nordmark, Pascal Thubert, Margaret Wasserman,
  2013-10-21, <draft-chakrabarti-nordmark-6man-efficient-nd-04.txt>

      IPv6 Neighbor Discovery (RFC 4861) protocol has been designed for
      neighbor's address resolution, unreachability detection, address
      autoconfiguration, router advertisement and solicitation.  With the
      progress of Internet adoption on various industries including home,
      wireless, M2M and cellular networks there is a desire for optimizing
      the legacy IPv6 Neighbor Discovery protocol.  This document describes
      a method of optimization by reducing multicast messages and
      introducing an IPv6 address Registration mechanism.  The optimization
      of IPv6 Neighbor Discovery protocol is useful for Wirless and low-
      power IPv6 networks and as well as Data Centers and Home Networks.
      The solution is capable of handling existing legacy IPv6 nodes in the
      network with local mobility.

  "Extensions to Resource Reservation Protocol For Fast Reroute of
  Bidirectional Co-routed Traffic Engineering LSPs", Mike Taillon, Cisco
  Systems, Rakesh Gandhi, Zafar Ali, Manav Bhatia, Lizhong Jin, Frederic
  JOUNAY, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-tsaad-ccamp-rsvpte-bidir-lsp-fastreroute-02.txt>

      This document defines RSVP-TE signaling extensions to support Fast
      Reroute (FRR) of bidirectional co-routed Traffic Engineering (TE)
      LSPs. These extensions enable the re-direction of bi-directional
      traffic and signaling onto bypass tunnels that ensure co-routedness
      of data and signaling paths in the forward and reverse directions
      after FRR. In addition, the RSVP-TE signaling extensions allow the
      coordination of bypass tunnel assignment protecting a common facility
      in both forward and reverse directions prior to or post failure
      occurrence.

  "URI Signing for CDN Interconnection (CDNI)", Kent Leung, Francois Le
  Faucheur, Bill Downey, Ray van Brandenburg, Scott Leibrand, 2013-08-30,
  <draft-leung-cdni-uri-signing-03.txt>

      This document describes how the concept of URI signing supports the
      content access control requirements of CDNI and proposes a candidate
      URI signing scheme.
      
      The proposed URI signing method specifies the information needed to
      be included in the URI and the algorithm used to authorize and to
      validate access request for the content referenced by the URI.  Some
      of the information may be accessed by the CDN via configuration or
      CDNI metadata.

  "Encoding of Time Intervals for the TCP Timestamp Option", Richard
  Scheffenegger, Mirja Kuehlewind, Brian Trammell, 2013-07-14,
  <draft-trammell-tcpm-timestamp-interval-01.txt>

      The TCP Timestamp option would be useful for additional measurements
      if it could be assumed that the interval between ticks of the
      timestamp clock are regular, and if that interval were known.  In
      practice, many implementations do use a timestamp clock source that
      has a regular interval.  This draft specifies a compact encoding for
      exposing the timestamp interval to a receiver, and discusses
      applications therefor.

  "P-Charge-Info - A Private Header (P-Header) Extension to the Session
  Initiation Protocol (SIP)", Dan York, Tolga Asveren, 2013-09-20,
  <draft-york-dispatch-p-charge-info-02.txt>

      This text documents 'P-Charge-Info', an existing private Session
      Initiation Protocol (SIP) header (P-header) used to convey billing
      information about the party to be charged.  This P-Header is
      currently in production usage by a number of equipment vendors and
      carriers and this document is submitted to request the registration
      of this header with IANA.  This P-Header may also be used in some
      situations to carry the ISUP Charge Number parameter for PSTN
      interconnection.
      
      NOTE: This document has been in development since 2008 under the name
      draft-york-sipping-p-charge-info.  This -02 document is identical to
      draft-york-sipping-p-charge-info-15 except for edits to the text to
      indicate this is now for the DISPATCH working group as the SIPPING
      working group no longer exists.

  "Use Cases for an Interface to BGP Protocol", Keyur Patel, Rex Fernando,
  Hannes Gredler, Shane Amante, 2013-07-12,
  <draft-keyupate-irs-bgp-usecases-02.txt>

      A network routing protocol like BGP is typically configured and
      results of its operation are analyzed through some form of Command
      Line Interface (CLI) or NETCONF.  These interactions to control BGP
      and diagnose its operation encompass: configuration of protocol
      parameters, display of protocol data, setting of certain protocol
      state and debugging of the protocol.
      
      Interface to the Routing System's (IRS) Programmatic interfaces, as
      defined in [I-D.ward-irs-framework], provides an alternate way to
      control the configuration and diagnose the operation of the BGP
      protocol.  IRS may be used for the configuration, manipulation,
      polling or analyzing protocol data.  This document describes set of
      use cases for which IRS can be used for BGP protocol.  It is intended
      to provide a base for the solution draft describing a set of
      interfaces to the BGP protocol.

  "Service Advertisement using BGP", Keyur Patel, Jan Medved, Burjiz
  Pithawala, 2013-04-26, <draft-keyupate-bgp-services-02.txt>

      A variety of services, such as NATs, firewalls, or caches, can be
      embedded in a service provider network or instantiated in data
      centers attached to the network.  This document proposes extensions
      to BGP that facilitate discovery of such service instances by
      interested clients and allows dissemination of service information,
      such as services capabilities or capacities, thoughtout the network
      domain.  The proposed extensions allow for optimal routing of
      requests to service instances that can optimally serve them.

  "Bootstrapping Trust on a Homenet", Michael Behringer, Max Pritikin,
  Steinthor Bjarnason, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-behringer-homenet-trust-bootstrap-01.txt>

      A homenet must be aware of its borders, and the realms within those.
      This document proposes an approach to bootstrap trust in such an
      environment.  The idea is to select one device as the trust anchor
      and to enrol other devices into the domain.  The result is the
      creation of a domain of trust in the homenet, with a common trust
      anchor.  This trust model can subsequently be used to determine
      boundaries, and to autonomically bootstrap network services.

  "Performance Monitoring Analysis for L3VPN", Lianshu Zheng, Zhenbin Li,
  Sam Aldrin, Bhavani Parise, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-zheng-l3vpn-pm-analysis-02.txt>

      To perform the measurement of packet loss, delay and other metrics on
      a particular VPN flow, the egress PE need to tell to which specific
      ingress VRF a packet belongs to.  But for L3VPN, multipoint-to-point
      or multipoint-to-multipoint (MP2MP) network model applies, flow
      identifying is a big challenge.  This document summarizes the current
      performance monitoring mechanisms for L3VPN in MPLS networks, and
      analyzes various solutions and challenges for measuring performance
      metrics within these networks.  This document also identifies various
      key points which needs to be taken in consideration when designing
      L3VPN performance monitoring mechanisms.  Performance measurements
      within non-MPLS L3VPN networks is not within the scope of the
      document.

  "Requirements for Power Aware Network", Jie Dong, Mingui Zhang, Beichuan
  Zhang, Mohamed Boucadair, 2013-10-15,
  <draft-dong-panet-requirement-02.txt>

      Energy consumption of networks is rising fast, which results in the
      increase of network operational costs.  There are emerging demands
      from operators for power-aware networking (PANET) which could
      adaptively reduce the network energy consumption when possible.  This
      document presents the requirements which should be considered in
      building a power aware network.

  "Use Cases for Power-Aware Networks", Mingui Zhang, Jie Dong, Beichuan
  Zhang, Bithika Khargharia, 2013-10-11,
  <draft-zhang-panet-use-cases-03.txt>

      Power Aware NETwork (PANET) has attracted strong interest from both
      carriers and vendors. Several use cases are investigated in this
      document to exhibit the potential usage of PANET in both backbone and
      data center networks.

  "STP Application of ICCP", Mingui Zhang, Huafeng Wen, 2013-05-01,
  <draft-zhang-iccp-stp-03.txt>

      Inter-Chassis Communication Protocol (ICCP) supports the inter-
      chassis redundancy mechanism which achieves high network
      availability.
      
      In this document, the PEs in a Redundant Group (RG) running ICCP are
      used to offer multi-homed connectivity to Spanning Tree Protocol
      (STP) networks. The ICCP TLVs for the STP application are defined,
      therefore PEs from the RG can make use of these TLVs to synchronize
      the state and configuration data.

  "Analysis of Semantic Embedded IPv6 Address Schemas", Sheng Jiang,
  Qiong, Ian Farrer, Yang Bo, Tianle Yang, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-jiang-v6ops-semantic-prefix-04.txt>

      This informational document discusses the use of embedded semantics
      within IPv6 address schemas.  Network operators who have large IPv6
      address space may choose to embed some semantics into their IPv6
      addressing by assigning additional significance to specific bits
      within the prefix.  By embedding semantics into IPv6 prefixes, the
      semantics of packets can be easily inspected.  This can simplify the
      packet differentiation process.  However, semantic embedded IPv6
      address schemas have their own operational cost and even potential
      pitfalls.  Some complex semantic embedded IPv6 address schemas may
      also require new technologies in addition to existing Internet
      protocols.
      
      The document aims to understand the usage of semantic embedded IPv6
      address schemas, and neutrally analyze on the associated advantages,
      drawbacks and technical gaps for more complex address schemas.

  "Extension to LISP NAT Traversal Proposal", Li Cheng, Jun Wang,
  2013-07-15, <draft-cheng-lisp-nat-traversal-extension-01.txt>

      This draft specifies several special NAT traversal scenarios when two
      or more LISP Sites/MNs which locate behind the same NAT equipment
      communicate with each other.  When these LISP Sites/MNs communicate
      with each other, it may cause routing latency and will increase re-
      encapsulation load on Re-encapsulating Tunnel Routers(RTRs) based on
      existing LISP-NAT strategy.
      
      In this draft, we give detail descriptions of these scenarios.  Also
      we propose some suggestions to solve the problems.  According to our
      strategy, a new kind of message is used for RTRs to send relative
      information of Corresponding Sites/MNs to xTRs.

  "Report from the 'Smart Object Security Workshop', March 23, 2012,
  Paris, France", Johannes Gilger, Hannes Tschofenig, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-gilger-smart-object-security-workshop-02.txt>

      This document provides a summary of a workshop on 'Smart Object
      Security', which took place in Paris on March 23, 2012.  The main
      goal of the workshop was to allow participants to share their
      thoughts about the ability to utilize existing and widely deployed
      security mechanisms for smart objects.
      
      This report summarizes the discussions and lists the conclusions and
      recommendations to the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
      community.

  "IPv6 Transition Technologies Selection using DHCP/DHCPv6", Tianle Yang,
  Qiongfang Ma, 2013-10-21, <draft-yang-v6ops-ipv6tran-select-02.txt>

      Nowadays, many IPv6 transition technologies has been proposed, such
      as Dual-Stack, DS-Lite, 6rd and so on.  An CPE may support some of
      them instead of only one.  But ISPs usually deploy just an unique
      transition technology in an area, for example, under a BRAS/SR or in
      a MAN.  So they must control all the CPEs to ues the exact transition
      tech through the CPEs' management system or configuring them before
      issuing to the customers.  Another question is that if subscriber buy
      a new CPE from supermarket to substitute the one received from the
      ISP, he may not access internet because of the wrong configuration.
      
      To solve these problems,this document defines a new DHCP/DHCPv6
      option named TRAN_TYPE which can control CPEs to select the
      appropriate IPv6 transition technology which ISP deployed instend of
      the CPEs' default configration.  This method can also solve the
      configurating problem when various CPEs work together without a
      uniform configuration in advance.

  "The eduroam architecture for network roaming", Klaas Wierenga, Stefan
  Winter, Tomasz Wolniewicz, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-wierenga-ietf-eduroam-01.txt,.pdf>

      This document describes the architecture of the eduroam service for
      federated (wireless) network access in academia.  The combination of
      802.1X, EAP and RADIUS that is used in eduroam provides a secure,
      scalable and deployable service for roaming network access.  The
      successful deployment of eduroam over the last decade in the
      educational sector may serve as an example for other sectors, hence
      this document.  In particular the initial architectural and standards
      choices and the changes that were prompted by operational experience
      are highlighted.

  "Distribution of MPLS Traffic Engineering (TE) LSP State using BGP", Jie
  Dong, Mach Chen, Hannes Gredler, Stefano Previdi, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-dong-idr-te-lsp-distribution-04.txt>

      This document describes a mechanism to collect the Traffic
      Engineering (TE) LSP information using BGP.  Such information can be
      used by external components for path reoptimization, service
      placement and network visualization.

  "Service Discovery in a Multiple Connection Environment: Problem
  Statement", Zehn Cao, Aaron Ding, 2013-08-27,
  <draft-cao-mif-srv-dis-ps-03.txt>

      This document analyzes the problems of service discovery in a
      multiple connection environment.  A multiple connection environment
      consists of multiple-interfaced nodes connecting to multiple networks
      or multiple provisioning domains.  Given a type of service a
      multiple-interfaced client is looking for, the discovery progress
      ought to return a correct pointer to the service instance that the
      client is able to access without trying every available channel.

  "MPLS-TP Shared-Ring protection (MSRP) mechanism for ring topology",
  Weiqiang Cheng, Lei Wang, Han Li, Kai Liu, He Jia, Fang Li, Yang Jian,
  Junfang Wang, 2013-07-08,
  <draft-cheng-mpls-tp-shared-ring-protection-01.txt>

      This document describes requirements and solutions for MPLS-TP Shared
      Ring Protection (MSRP) in the ring topology for point-to-point (P2P)
      services.  The mechanism of MSRP is illustrated and analyzed how it
      satisfies the requirements in RFC5654 for optimized ring protection.

  "Using NTP Extension Fields without Authentication", Tal Mizrahi, Danny
  Mayer, 2013-07-10, <draft-mizrahi-ntp-extension-field-02.txt>

      The Network Time Protocol Version 4 (NTPv4) defines the optional
      usage of extension fields. An extension field is an optional field
      that resides at the end of the NTP header, and can be used to add
      optional capabilities or additional information that is not conveyed
      in the standard NTP header. The current definition of extension
      fields in NTPv4 is somewhat ambiguous regarding the connection
      between extension fields and the presence of a Message Authentication
      Code (MAC). This draft clarifies the usage of extension fields in the
      presence and in the absence of a MAC, while maintaining
      interoperability with existing implementations.

  "Applicability of LDP Multi-Topology for Unicast Fast-reroute Using
  Maximally Redundant Trees", Zhenbin Li, Tao Chou, Quintin Zhao, Tianle
  Yang, 2013-04-26, <draft-li-rtgwg-ldp-mt-mrt-frr-02.txt>

      In this document, procedures' considerations on the applicability of
      LDP MT for unicast fast-reroute using MRT are provided.  The
      behaviors of label allocation and label forwarding entry setup with
      LDP Multi-Topology and MRT fast-reroute are described in details.
      Different application scenarios of the combining of the LDP multi-
      topology(MT) and unicast fast-reroute using Maximally Redundant
      Trees(MRT) are also analyzed.

  "Multi-Path Time Synchronization", Alex Shpiner, Richard Tse, Craig
  Schelp, Tal Mizrahi, 2013-08-13,
  <draft-shpiner-multi-path-synchronization-02.txt>

      Clock synchronization protocols are very widely used in IP-based
      networks. The Network Time Protocol (NTP) has been commonly deployed
      for many years, and the last few years have seen an increasingly
      rapid deployment of the Precision Time Protocol (PTP). As time-
      sensitive applications evolve, clock accuracy requirements are
      becoming increasingly stringent, requiring the time synchronization
      protocols to provide high accuracy. Slave Diversity is a recently
      introduced approach, where the master and slave clocks (also known as
      server and client) are connected through multiple network paths, and
      the slave combines the information received through all paths to
      obtain a higher clock accuracy compared to the conventional one-path
      approach.  This document describes a multi-path approach to PTP and
      NTP over IP networks, allowing the protocols to run concurrently over
      multiple communication paths between the master and slave clocks. The
      multi-path approach can significantly contribute to clock accuracy,
      security and fault protection. The Multi-Path Precision Time Protocol
      (MPPTP) and Multi-Path Network Time Protocol (MPNTP) define an
      additional layer that extends the existing PTP and NTP without the
      need to modify these protocols. MPPTP and MPNTP also allow backward
      compatibility with nodes that do not support the multi-path
      extension.

  "VP8 as RTCWEB Mandatory to Implement", Harald Alvestrand, Adrian
  Grange, 2013-10-06, <draft-alvestrand-rtcweb-vp8-02.txt>

      This document recommends that the RTCWEB working group choose the VP8
      specification as a mandatory to implement video codec for RTCWEB
      implementations.
      
      This document is not intended for publication as an RFC.

  "An XCON Client Conference Control Package for the Media Control Channel
  Framework", Chris Boulton, Mary Barnes, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-boulton-dispatch-conference-control-package-01.txt>

      The Centralized Conferencing (XCON) framework defines a model whereby
      client initiated interactions are required for creation, deletion,
      manipulation and querying the state of a of conference.  This
      document defines a Media Control Channel Package for XCON
      conferencing client initiated Conference Control.  The Package is
      based on the Media Control Channel Framework, which is also used for
      media server control, thus optimizing the implementation for some
      entities participating in an XCON system.

  "LISP Impact", Damien Saucez, Luigi Iannone, Florin Coras, 2013-08-19,
  <draft-saucez-lisp-impact-02.txt>

      The Locator/Identifier Separation Protocol (LISP) aims at improving
      the Internet scalability properties leveraging on three simple
      principles: address role separation, encapsulation, and mapping.  In
      this document, based on implementation, deployment, and theoretical
      studies, we discuss the impact that deployment of LISP can have on
      both the Internet in general and for the end-users in particular.

  "Cryptographic Security Characteristics of 802.11 Wireless LAN Access
  Systems", Stephen Orr, Anthony Grieco, Dan Harkins, 2012-10-15,
  <draft-orr-wlan-security-architectures-00.txt>

      This note identifies all of the places that cryptography is used in
      Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) architectures, to simplify the
      task of selecting the protocols, algorithms, and key sizes needed to
      achieve a consistent security level across the entire architecture.

  "Message Disposition Notification", Tony Hansen, Alexey Melnikov,
  2013-07-15, <draft-hansen-mdn-3798bis-01.txt>

      This memo defines a MIME content-type that may be used by a mail user
      agent (MUA) or electronic mail gateway to report the disposition of a
      message after it has been successfully delivered to a recipient.
      This content-type is intended to be machine-processable.  Additional
      message header fields are also defined to permit Message Disposition
      Notifications (MDNs) to be requested by the sender of a message.  The
      purpose is to extend Internet Mail to support functionality often
      found in other messaging systems, such as X.400 and the proprietary
      "LAN-based" systems, and often referred to as "read receipts,"
      "acknowledgements", or "receipt notifications."  The intention is to
      do this while respecting privacy concerns, which have often been
      expressed when such functions have been discussed in the past.
      
      Because many messages are sent between the Internet and other
      messaging systems (such as X.400 or the proprietary "LAN-based"
      systems), the MDN protocol is designed to be useful in a multi-
      protocol messaging environment.  To this end, the protocol described
      in this memo provides for the carriage of "foreign" addresses, in
      addition to those normally used in Internet Mail.  Additional
      attributes may also be defined to support "tunneling" of foreign
      notifications through Internet Mail.

  "SDP for the WebRTC", Suhas Nandakumar, Cullen Jennings, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-nandakumar-rtcweb-sdp-03.txt,.pdf>

      The Web Real-Time Communication (WebRTC) [WEBRTC] working group is
      charged to provide protocol support for direct interactive rich
      communication using audio, video and data between two peers' web
      browsers.  With in the WebRTC framework, Session Description protocol
      (SDP) [RFC4566] is used for negotiating session capabilities between
      the peers.  Such a negotiation happens based on the SDP Offer/Answer
      exchange mechanism described in the RFC 3264 [RFC3264].
      
      This documents provides an informational reference in describing the
      role of SDP and Offer/Answer exchange for the most common WebRTC use-
      cases.
      
      This SDP examples provided in this document is still a work in
      progress, but it aims to align closest to the evolving standards
      work.

  "Tree Notification to Improve Multicast Fast Reroute", IJsbrand
  Wijnands, Luc De Ghein, Gabor Envedi, Andras Csaszar, Jeff Tantsura,
  2013-07-09, <draft-wijnands-rtgwg-mcast-frr-tn-01.txt>

      This draft proposes dataplane triggered Tree Notifications to support
      multicast fast reroute for PIM and mLDP.  These Tree Notifications
      are initiated by a node detecting the failure to a Repair Node
      downstream.  A Repair Node is a node that has a pre-built backup path
      that can circumvent the failure.  Using this mechanism, a Repair Node
      has the ability to learn about non-local failures quickly without
      having to wait for the IGP to convergence.  This draft also covers an
      optional method to avoid bandwidth usage on the pre-built backup
      path.

  "E-VPN Operations, Administration and Maintenance Requirements and
  Framework", Samer Salam, Ali Sajassi, Sam Aldrin, John Drake,
  2013-07-03, <draft-salam-l2vpn-evpn-oam-req-frmwk-01.txt>

      This document specifies the requirements and reference framework for
      Ethernet VPN (E-VPN) Operations, Administration and Maintenance
      (OAM). The requirements cover the OAM aspects of E-VPN, PBB-EVPN and
      TRILL-EVPN. The framework defines the layered OAM model encompassing
      the E-VPN service layer, network layer and underlying Packet Switched
      Network (PSN) transport layer.

  "Transaction SIGnature (TSIG) using CGA Algorithm in IPv6",  Hosnieh,
  Martin von Loewis, Christoph Meinel, 2013-09-27,
  <draft-rafiee-intarea-cga-tsig-06.txt>

      This document describes a new mechanism that can be used to reduce
      the need for human intervention during DNS authentication and secure
      DNS authentication in various scenarios such as the DNS
      authentication of resolvers to stub resolvers, authentication during
      zone transfers, authentication of root DNS servers to recursive DNS
      servers, and authentication during the FQDN (RFC 4703) update.
      
      Especially in the last scenario, i.e., FQDN, if the node uses the
      Neighbor Discovery Protocol (NDP) (RFC 4861, RFC 4862), unlike the
      Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) (RFC 3315), the node has
      no way of updating his FQDN records on the DNS and has no means for a
      secure authentication with the DNS server. While this is a major
      problem in NDP-enabled networks, this is a minor problem in DHCPv6.
      This is because the DHCP server updates the FQDN records on behalf of
      the nodes on the network.

  "E-VPN and IP-VPN Integrated Solution", Ali Sajassi, Samer Salam, Keyur
  Patel, Nabil Bitar, Aldrin Isaac, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-sajassi-l2vpn-evpn-ipvpn-interop-02.txt>

      E-VPN can be an integral part of an Integrated Routing and Bridging
      (IRB) solution which is capable of performing optimum unicast and
      multicast forwarding not just for L2 traffic but also for L3 traffic.
      This document describes how an IRB solution based on E-VPN can
      interoperate seamlessly with the IP-VPN solution over MPLS and IP
      networks.

  "Transport Layer Security (TLS) Authorization Using DTCP Certificate",
  Darshak Thakore, 2013-07-13, <draft-dthakore-tls-authz-04.txt>

      This document specifies the use of Digital Transmission Content
      Protection (DTCP) certificates as an authorization data type in the
      authorization extension for the Transport Layer Security (TLS)
      Protocol.  This is in accordance with the guidelines for
      authorization extensions as specified in [RFC5878].  As with other
      TLS extensions, this authorization data can be included in the client
      and server Hello messages to confirm that both parties support the
      desired authorization data types.  If supported by both the client
      and the server, DTCP certificates are exchanged in the supplemental
      data TLS handshake message as specified in RFC4680.  This
      authorization data type extension is in support of devices containing
      DTCP certificates, issued by the Digital Transmission Licensing
      Administrator [DTLA].

  "Distributed Mobility Management - Framework & Analysis", Marco Liebsch,
  Pierrick Seite, Georgios Karagiannis, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-liebsch-dmm-framework-analysis-02.txt>

      Mobile operators consider the distribution of mobility anchors to
      enable offloading some traffic from their core network.  The
      Distributed Mobility Management (DMM) Working Group is investigating
      the impact of decentralized mobility management to existing protocol
      solutions, while taking into account well defined requirements, which
      are to be met by a future solution.  This document discusses DMM
      using a functional framework.  Functional Entities to support DMM as
      well as reference points between these Functional Entities are
      introduced and described.  The described functional framework allows
      distribution and co-location of Functional Entities and build a DMM
      architecture that matches the architecture of available protocols.
      Such methodology eases the analysis of best current practices with
      regard to functional and protocol gaps.

  "Observations on the experience and nature of Large Interim Meetings",
  Joel Jaeggli, Jari Arkko, 2013-01-14,
  <draft-jaeggli-interim-observations-04.txt>

      Planning, particpipation and conclusions from the experience of
      participating in the IETF LIM activity on september 29th 2012.

  "Vulnerability Data Model",  harold.booth@nist.gov, Karen Scarfone,
  2013-04-25, <draft-booth-sacm-vuln-model-02.txt>

      This Internet-Draft describes the Vulnerability Data Model (VDM)
      version 1.0, a vendor neutral data model for expressing data and
      metadata for individual vulnerabilities, and an XML format that can
      be used to exchange vulnerability data model information.  VDM
      provides standard fields, formats and vocabularies that can be used
      to transmit information about software vulnerabilities between
      entities in an interoperable manner.  VDM is suited for a wide
      variety of use cases, and provides extension points to facilitate
      additional use cases.

  "NADA: A Unified Congestion Control Scheme for Real-Time Media",
  Xiaoqing Zhu, Rong Pan, 2013-09-11, <draft-zhu-rmcat-nada-02.txt>

      This document describes a scheme named network-assisted dynamic
      adaptation (NADA), a novel congestion control approach for
      interactive real-time media applications, such as video conferencing.
      In the proposed scheme, the sender regulates its sending rate based
      on either implicit or explicit congestion signaling, in a unified
      approach. The scheme can benefit from explicit congestion
      notification (ECN) markings from network nodes. It also maintains
      consistent sender behavior in the absence of such markings, by
      reacting to queuing delays and packet losses instead.
      
      We present here the overall system architecture, recommended
      behaviors at the sender and the receiver, as well as expected network
      node operations. Results from extensive simulation studies of the
      proposed scheme are available upon request.

  "TRILL: Nickname and Label Properties", Donald Eastlake, Hao Weiguo,
  2013-10-12, <draft-eastlake-trill-nick-label-prop-02.txt>

      There are a number of current and prospective requirements to
      indicate properties of nicknames, labels, and blocks thereof, for use
      with the TRILL (Transparent Interconnection of Lots of Links, RFC
      6325) protocol. To meet that need, this document specifies IS-IS
      (Intermediate System to Intermediate System) sub-TLVs and some of
      their uses.

  "H.264 as Mandatory to Implement Video Codec for WebRTC", BoB, Markus
  Isomaki, Bernard Aboba, Gaelle Martin-Cocher, Giridhar Mandyam, Xavier
  Marjou, Cullen Jennings, Jonathan Rosenberg, David Singer, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-burman-rtcweb-h264-proposal-03.txt>

      This document proposes that, and motivates why, H.264 should be a
      Mandatory To Implement video codec for WebRTC.

  "Session Peering Provisioning (SPP) Protocol over REST", Mickael
  Marrache, David Schwartz, Syed Ali, 2013-04-22,
  <draft-marrache-drinks-spp-protocol-rest-02.txt,.pdf>

      The Session Peering Provisioning Framework (SPPF) is a framework that
      exists to enable the provisioning of session establishment data into
      Session Data Registries or SIP Service Provider data stores.  This
      SPP Protocol implementation follows the REST architectural principles
      over HTTP to allow efficient provisioning of session establishment
      data.  The benefits include inter alia better performances under high
      loads through the use of HTTP caches and proxies and less coupling
      between clients and servers.  This document describes the
      specification of a protocol for transporting SPPF structures over
      HTTP(s) following REST architectural principles.

  "RSVP-TE LSP egress fast-protection", Jeyananth Jeganathan, Hannes
  Gredler, Yimin Shen, 2013-04-25,
  <draft-minto-rsvp-lsp-egress-fast-protection-02.txt>

      RFC4090 defines a fast reroute mechanism for locally repairing an
      RSVP-TE LSP in the order of 10s of milliseconds, in the event of a
      downstream link or node failure.  However, this mechanism does not
      provide node protection for LSP egress nodes, even when an alternate
      egress node (a backup egress) is available that could carry the
      traffic to its ultimate destination.  This document addresses this
      scenario and describes how to provide egress protection by
      establishing a bypass LSP from the penultimate-hop node of a LSP to
      the backup egress node.  The methods described in this document
      enable local repair in the order of 10s of milliseconds, in the event
      of the egress node failure.  These methods are only applicable if
      traffic carried by the LSP can be rerouted to its ultimate
      destination by the backup egress node.

  "RSVP-TE Extensions For Signaling GMPLS Restoration LSP", Rakesh Gandhi,
  Zafar Ali, Gabriele Galimberti, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-gandhi-ccamp-gmpls-restoration-lsp-01.txt>

      In transport networks, there are requirements where Generalized
      Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS) recovery scheme need to employ
      restoration LSP while keeping resources for the working and/ or
      protecting LSPs reserved in the network. Existing GMPLS recovery
      procedures do not address these requirements. This document describes
      best common practice for using RSVP-TE for GMPLS recovery with
      restoration LSP.

  "Requirements for Extending BGP/MPLS VPNs to End-Systems", Maria
  Napierala, Luyuan Fang, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-fang-l3vpn-end-system-requirements-02.txt>

      The proven scalability and extensibility beyond the original design
      purposes of the BGP/MPLS IP VPNs (IP VPN) technology [RFC4364] has
      made it an attractive candidate for Data Center (DC)/Cloud
      virtualization. This document provides the requirements for extending
      IP VPN (in original or modified versions) into the end-systems/end-
      devices, such as a server in a DCs/Cloud. Physical separation of the
      control and the forwarding planes; virtualizing the network functions
      of the IP VPN network elements, such as a PE, are the key differences
      compared with the classic IP VPN solutions.

  "Power-Aware Networks (PANET): Problem Statement", Beichuan Zhang,
  Junxiao Shi, Jie Dong, Mingui Zhang, Mohamed Boucadair, 2013-10-15,
  <draft-zhang-panet-problem-statement-03.txt>

      Energy consumption of network infrastructures is growing fast due to
      exponential growth of data traffic and the deployment of increasingly
      powerful equipment.  There are emerging needs for power-aware routing
      and traffic engineering, which adapt routing paths to traffic load in
      order to reduce energy consumption network-wide.  This document
      outlines the design space and problem areas for potential IETF work.

  "Why Operators Filter Fragments and What It Implies", Joel Jaeggli,
  Lorenzo Colitti, Warren Kumari, Eric Vyncke, Merike Kaeo, Tom Taylor,
  2013-06-04, <draft-taylor-v6ops-fragdrop-01.txt>

      This memo was written to make application developers and network
      operators aware of the significant possibility that IPv6 packets
      containing fragmentation extension headers may fail to reach their
      destination.  Some protocol or application assumptions about the
      ability to use messages larger than a single packet may accordingly
      not be supportable in all networks or circumstances.
      
      This memo provides observational evidence for the dropping of IPv6
      fragments along a significant number of paths, explores the
      operational impact of fragmentation and the reasons and scenarios
      where drops occur, and considers the effect of fragment drops on
      applications where fragmentation is known to occur, particularly
      including DNS.

  "Using Extended Key Usage (EKU) for REsource LOcation And Discovery
  (RELOAD) X.509 Certificates", Marc Petit-Huguenin, 2013-04-29,
  <draft-petithuguenin-p2psip-reload-eku-01.txt>

      This document describes an Extended Key Usage (EKU) X.509 certificate
      extension for restricting the usage of a certificate to a REsource
      LOcation And Discovery (RELOAD) overlay.

  "Layer-3 virtual network overlays based on BGP Layer-3 VPNs", Dhananjaya
  Rao, John Mullooly, Rex Fernando, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-drao-bgp-l3vpn-virtual-network-overlays-02.txt>

      Virtual network overlays are being designed and deployed in various
      types of networks, including data centers.  These network overlays
      address several requirements including flexible network
      virtualization and multi-tenancy, increased scale, and support for
      mobility of virtual machines.  Such overlay networks can be used to
      provide both Layer-2 and Layer-3 network services to hosts at the
      network edge.  New packet encapsulations are being defined and
      standardized to support these virtual networks.  These
      encapsulations, such as VXLAN and NVGRE, are primarily based on IP
      and are currently defined to support a Layer-2 forwarding service.
      
      BGP based Layer-3 VPNs, as specified in RFC 4364, provide an industry
      proven and well-defined solution for supporting Layer-3 virtual
      network services.  However, RFC 4364 procedures use MPLS labels to
      provide the network virtualization capability in the data plane.
      With the increasing support for IP overlay encapsulations in data
      center devices, there is a strong preference to utilize this support
      to deploy Layer-3 virtual networks using the familiarpolicy and
      operational primitives of Layer-3 VPNs.
      
      This document describes the use of BGP Layer-3 VPNs alongwith the new
      IP-based virtual network overlay encapsulations to provide a Layer-3
      virtualization solution for all IP traffic, and specifies mechanisms
      to use the new encapsulations while continuing to leverage the BGP
      Layer-3 VPN control plane techniques and extensions.  This mechanism
      provides an efficient incremental solution to support forwarding for
      IP traffic, irrespective of whether it is destined within or across
      an IP subnet boundary.

  "A One-Way Delay Metric for IPPM", Guy Almes, Sunil Kalidindi, Matthew
  Zekauskas, Al Morton, 2013-10-14, <draft-morton-ippm-2679-bis-03.txt>

      This memo (RFC 2679 bis) defines a metric for one-way delay of
      packets across Internet paths.  It builds on notions introduced and
      discussed in the IPPM Framework document, RFC 2330; the reader is
      assumed to be familiar with that document.

  "H.264/AVC as Mandatory-to-Implement Video Codec for RTCweb", David
  Benham, David Singer, Krasimir Kolarov, 2013-08-27,
  <draft-dbenham-webrtc-videomti-02.txt>

      This memo proposes that H.264/AVC be selected as the mandatory-to-
      implement (MTI) video codec for RTCweb due to is Adoption Advantage,
      Quality-Power-Bandwidth advantage, Hardware Acceleration Advantage
      and Well-established IPR Status.

  "RFC Style Guide", Heather Flanagan, Sandy Ginoza, 2013-09-04,
  <draft-flanagan-style-02.txt>

      This document is a summary of the style conventions and editorial
      policies that apply to the RFC document series.  It captures the RFC
      Editor's fundamental requirements and offers guidance regarding the
      format and structure of an RFC.  While in Internet-Draft format, it
      should be considered for discussion purposes only.  Guidance provided
      by this document will not be applied until published as an RFC. 
      Please send your comments to rfc-interest@rfc-editor.org.

  "I-PAKE: Identity-Based Password Authenticated Key Exchange", Taekyoung
  Kwon, Hyojin Yoon, Sang Kim, 2013-05-03,
  <draft-kwon-yoon-kim-ipake-01.txt>

      Although password authentication is the most widespread user
      authentication method today, cryptographic protocols for mutual
      authentication and key agreement, i.e., password authenticated key
      exchange (PAKE), in particular authenticated key exchange (AKE) based
      on a password only, are not actively used in the real world. This
      document introduces a quite novel form of PAKE protocols that employ
      a particular concept of ID-based encryption (IBE). The resulting
      cryptographic protocol is the ID-based password authenticated key
      exchange (I-PAKE) protocol which is a secure and efficient PAKE
      protocol in both soft- and hard-augmented models. I-PAKE achieves the
      security goals of AKE, PAKE, and hard-augmented PAKE. I-PAKE also
      achieves the great efficiency by allowing the whole pre-computation
      of the ephemeral Diffie-Hellman public keys by both server and
      client.

  "Building power shortest inter-Area TE LSPs using pre-computed paths",
  Shankar Raman, Balaji Venkat, Gaurav Raina, 2013-05-03,
  <draft-mjsraman-panet-intra-as-psp-te-leak-01.txt>

      In this paper, we propose a framework to reduce the aggregate power
      consumption of an Autonomous System (AS) using a collaborative
      approach between areas within an AS. We identify the low-power paths
      within non-backbone areas and then use Traffic Engineering (TE)
      techniques to route the packets along the stitched paths from non-
      backbone areas / backbone area to other non-backbone areas. Such low-
      power paths can be identified by using the power-to-available-
      bandwidth (PWR) ratio as an additional constraint in the Constrained
      Shortest Path First (CSPF) algorithm. For routing the data traffic
      through these low-power paths, the Inter-Area Traffic Engineered
      Label Switched Path (TE-LSP) that spans multiple areas can be used.
      Extensions to the Interior Gateway Protocols like OSPF and IS-IS that
      support TE extensions can be used to disseminate information about
      low-power paths in the respective areas (backbone or non-backbone)
      that minimize the PWR ratio metric on the links within the areas and
      between the areas thereby creating a collaborative approach to reduce
      the power consumption.
      
      The feasibility of our approaches is illustrated by applying our
      algorithm to an AS with a backbone area and several non-backbone
      areas. The techniques proposed in this paper for the Inter-Area power
      reduced paths require a few modifications to the existing features of
      the IGPs supporting TE extensions. The proposed techniques can be
      extended to other levels of Internet hierarchy, such as Inter-AS
      paths, through suitable modifications as in [11].
      
      When link state routing protocols like OSPF or ISIS are used to
      discover TE topology, there is the limitation that traffic engineered
      paths can be set up only when the head and tail end of the label
      switched path are in the same area. There are solutions to overcome
      this limitation either using offline Path Computation Engine (PCE)
      that attach to multiple areas and know the topology of all areas.
      This document proposes an alternative approach that does not require
      any centralized PCE and uses selective leaking of low-power TE path
      information from one area into other areas.

  "The SignPuddle Standard for SignWriting Text", Stephen Slevinski,
  2013-05-09, <draft-slevinski-signwriting-text-01.txt>

      For concreteness, because the universal character set is not yet
      universal, and because an international standard for the internet
      community should be documented and stable, this I-D has been released
      with the intention of producing an RFC to document the character use
      and naming conventions of the SignWriting community on the Internet.
      
      The SignWriting Script is an international standard for writing sign
      languages by hand or with computers.  From education to research,
      from entertainment to religion, SignWriting has proven useful because
      people are using it to write signed languages.  The SignWriting
      Script has two major families: Block Printing for the reader and
      Handwriting for the writer.  The script encoding model presented in
      this document evolved from the Block Printing half of the SignWriting
      Script.
      
      The SignWriting Text encoding model encompasses the Block Printing
      family of the SignWriting Script.  The plain text model for the
      mathematical names has been stable since January 12th, 2012.  The
      visual image can be SVG generated on the server or created with an
      experimental TrueType Font.  The coded character sets and character
      encoding forms are documented with regular expressions.
      
      The ad hoc graphemes of informal SignWriting were first created in
      1974.  Ad hoc graphemes are still used in the handwriting family.
      The standardized symbols of computerized Block Printing text began in
      1986.  After several generations of writers and standardized
      symbolsets, the ISWA 2010 has been optimized and refined as a 16-bit
      coded character set with several isomorphic encodings based on an
      ordered hierarchy with 6 degrees of significance.  The International
      SignWriting Alphabet 2010 is a mathematical symbolset that has been
      stable since its initial release on May 11th, 2010.
      
      The SignPuddle Standard for SignWriting Text is an open and freely
      available encoding model for sign language as text.  The licenses
      include the Open Font License for the fonts, Creative Commons by-sa
      (Attribution, Share Alike) for the documentation, and the GPL for the
      software implementation.  The technological infrastructure continues
      to expand and should be fully realized by the time this I-D has
      become an RFC.  SignPuddle Online contains almost 1 million examples
      of 2-dimensional signs written by the internet community.  Each
      logogram has a mathematical name which describes the freeform
      placement of the symbols.  These strings are the written record of
      the sign.  This standard and emerging infrastructure are used for the
      sign language Wikipedia project on Wikimedia Labs.  This standard is
      being integrated with the SignTyp linguistic coding system developed
      by Rachel Channon through an NSF grant.  This standard was the origin
      for the alternate Unicode proposals.
      
      For Unicode, the current use of the Private Use Area font characters
      is documented.  The state of the TrueType Font is explained.  A
      character proposal for plane 1 is included that is isomorphic with
      the characters that are currently used by the community.
      
      Three appendices discuss additional topics to the standard.  The
      first discusses the Modern SignWriting theory and example document,
      stable since January 12, 2012.  The second discusses the founding
      principles of Cartesian SignWriting: a script encoding model for
      SignWriting Block Printing.  The third discusses a common framework
      for written sign language grammar.
      
      This memo concretely defines a conceptual character encoding map for
      the Internet community.  It is published for reference, examination,
      implementation, and evaluation.  Distribution of this memo is
      unlimited.

  "Textual Representation of IPFIX Abstract Data Types", Brian Trammell,
  2013-07-30, <draft-trammell-ipfix-text-adt-02.txt>

      This document defines UTF-8 representations for IPFIX abstract data
      types, to support interoperable usage of the IPFIX Information
      Elements with protocols based on textual encodings.

  "TCAM power reduction and optimization in Routers", Shankar Raman,
  Balaji Venkat, Kamakoti Veezhinathan, Gaurav Raina, 2013-05-04,
  <draft-mjsraman-panet-tcam-power-efficiency-02.txt>

      This specification entails enabling power and performance management
      in Routers (multi-chassis and single chassis) with respect to TCAM
      and SRAM usage on intelligent router line cards  that implement
      Virtual Aggregation of routes.
      
      The version 00 of this document had several errata that have been
      addressed in this version. This scheme relates to unicast alone since
      multicast entries are programmed only after consultation with the
      unicast entries in the software plane in the Route processor. Hence
      this scheme does not apply to multicast.

  "ICN Baseline Scenarios and Evaluation Methodology", Kostas Pentikousis,
  Borje Ohlman, Daniel Corujo, Gennaro Boggia, Gareth Tyson, Elwyn Davies,
  Priya Mahadevan, Spiros Spirou, Antonella Molinaro, Dorothy Gellert,
  Suyong Eum, 2013-07-15, <draft-pentikousis-icn-scenarios-04.txt>

      This document aims at establishing a common understanding about the
      evaluation of different information-centric networking (ICN)
      approaches so that they can be tested and compared against each other
      while showcasing their own advantages.  Towards this end, we review
      the ICN literature and document scenarios which have been considered
      in previous performance evaluation studies.  We discuss a variety of
      aspects that an ICN solution can address.  This includes general
      aspects, such as, network efficiency, reduced complexity, increased
      scalability and reliability, mobility support, multicast and caching
      performance, real-time communication efficacy, energy consumption
      frugality, and disruption and delay tolerance.  We detail ICN-
      specific aspects as well, such as information security and trust,
      persistence, availability, provenance, and location independence.  We
      then survey the evaluation tools currently available to researchers
      in this area and provide suggestions regarding methodology and
      metrics.  Finally, this document sheds some light on the impact of
      ICN on network security.

  "Attacks on Cryptographic Hashes in Internet Protocols", Paul Hoffman,
  Bruce Schneier, 2013-04-29, <draft-hoffman-schneier-4270bis-02.txt>

      Announcements in the past decade of better-than-expected collision
      attacks in popular hash algorithms have caused some people to
      question whether common Internet protocols need to be changed, and if
      so, how.  This document summarizes the use of hashes in many
      protocols, discusses how the collision attacks affect and do not
      affect the protocols, shows how to thwart known attacks on digital
      certificates, and discusses future directions for protocol designers.
      It also gives rationales for moving away from some hash algorithms
      altogether and for choosing when to start using newer, presumably
      better, hash algorithms in Internet protocols.
      
      This document obsoletes RFC 4270 and introduces significant new
      material that has been learned since the publication of that
      document.

  "Transport Layer Security (TLS) Channel IDs", Dirk Balfanz, Ryan
  Hamilton, 2013-06-29, <draft-balfanz-tls-channelid-01.txt>

      This document describes a Transport Layer Security (TLS) extension
      for identifying client machines at the TLS layer without using bearer
      tokens.

  "Interactions between LFA and RSVP-TE", Stephane Litkowski, Bruno
  Decraene, Clarence Filsfils, Kamran Raza, 2013-08-19,
  <draft-litkowski-rtgwg-lfa-rsvpte-cooperation-02.txt>

      This document defines the behavior of a node supporting Loopfree
      Alternates (LFA) when the node has established RSVP TE tunnels.  It
      first describes the decisions to be made by the LFA mechanism with
      respect to the use of TE tunnels as LFA candidates.  Second, it
      discusses the use of RSVP TE tunnels as a way to complement the LFA
      coverage, illustrating how these technologies can benefit from each
      other.

  "Internet International Bank Account Number (IIBAN)", Walter Stanish,
  2013-05-16, <draft-stanish-iiban-01.txt>

      An Internet IBAN (IIBAN) identifies an internet-based financial
      endpoint in a manner that is superset-compatible with the existing
      European Committee for Banking Standards (ECBS) International Bank
      Account Number (IBAN) standard [ISO13616] and implementation
      recommendations [ECBS].  This document obsoletes draft-iiban-00.

  "Enhancing Location Based IP Services", Ammar Salih, 2013-05-17,
  <draft-add-location-to-ipv6-header-01.txt>

      This document describes IP-LOC, a proposed extension to IPv6 header
      which suggests adding optional geo-location field, in order to
      enhance existing geo-location based IP service as well as adding new
      ones.
      
      The current method of determining geo-location of IP traffic is
      through RIR (Regional Internet Registry) database, this information
      is not very accurate as it depends on how the ISP registers its IP
      subnets, that is normally done in a country/city format.
      
      It also assumes that in the future, GPS capability could be added to
      the router itself (just like smart phones) and packet marking and
      classification based on geo-location will be required.
      
      QoS, firewall and routing based on geo-location might also be
      required in the future when mobile routers move from one geo-location
      to another, which has a different policy.

  "NVGRE and VXLAN Encapsulation Extension for L3 Overlay", Lucy Yong,
  KuiKe Building, 2013-10-17, <draft-yong-l3vpn-nvgre-vxlan-encap-03.txt>

      Both NVGRE and VXLAN encapsulations were originally designed for L2
      overlay only. This draft proposes the enhancement on both to support
      L3 overlay as well. The proposed method completely decouples the L3
      overlay from the L2 overlay in terms of encoding schema and data
      processing.

  "OAuth Token Introspection", Justin Richer, 2013-05-01,
  <draft-richer-oauth-introspection-04.txt>

      This specification defines a method for a client or protected
      resource to query an OAuth authorization server to determine meta-
      information about an OAuth token.

  "Redundant BFD sessions", Marc Binderberger, Nobo Akiya, 2013-05-07,
  <draft-mbind-bfd-redundancy-01.txt>

      This document defines a second or "shadow" BFD session to an existing
      "primary" BFD session, providing resiliency against BFD failures that
      are not legitimate.
      
      Scenarios will be discussed on how presence of a shadow BFD session
      will be beneficial in the context of high availability.

  "DSCP and other packet markings for RTCWeb QoS", Subha Dhesikan, Dan
  Druta, Paul Jones, James Polk, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-dhesikan-tsvwg-rtcweb-qos-02.txt>

      Many networks, such as service provider and enterprise networks, can
      provide per packet treatments based on Differentiated Services Code
      Points (DSCP) on a per hop basis.  This document provides the
      recommended DSCP values for browsers to use for various classes of
      traffic.

  "Using PCP to Reveal a Host behind NAT", Mohamed Boucadair, Tirumaleswar
  Reddy, Prashanth Patil, Dan Wing, 2013-05-28,
  <draft-boucadair-pcp-nat-reveal-01.txt>

      This document describes how to use PCP to retrieve the identity of a
      host behind a NAT.  Two use cases are discussed and the PCP
      applicability is analyzed.  This document extends PCP with a new
      OpCode called QUERY Opcode.
      
      The proposed mechanism is valid for all NAT flavors including NAT44,
      NAT64 or NPTv6.

  "TRILL Smart Endnodes", Radia Perlman, fangwei hu, Donald Eastlake,
  Kesava Krupakaran, Ting Liao, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-perlman-trill-smart-endnodes-02.txt>

      This draft addresses the problem of the size and freshness of the
      endnode learning table in edge RBridges, by allowing endnodes to
      volunteer for endnode learning and encapsulation/decapsulation.  Such
      an endnode is known as a "smart endnode".  Only the attached RBridge
      can distinguish a "smart endnode" from a "normal endnode".  The smart
      endnode uses the nickname of the attached RBridge, so this solution
      does not consume extra nicknames.

  "Enhanced Closed Swarm protocol", Dusan Gabrijelcic, 2013-06-01,
  <draft-ppsp-gabrijelcic-ecs-01.txt>

      The Enhanced Closed Swarm (ECS) protocol is a distributed access
      control mechanism suitable for usage in Peer-to-Peer content delivery
      systems.  The protocol provides coarse or fine grained authorization
      of peers participating in content distribution.  As a result, only
      authorized peers are allowed to communicate in a swarm.  The protocol
      also provides data confidentiality, integrity and origin
      authentication for application data exchanged among peers.  The
      protocol is simple but flexible enough to enable a range of usage
      scenarios.  In addition to the ECS protocol, this document also
      describes its application in the IETF PPSPP.

  "Security Assessment of Neighbor Discovery (ND) for IPv6", Fernando
  Gont, Ron Bonica, Will Liu, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-gont-opsec-ipv6-nd-security-02.txt>

      Neighbor Discovery is one of the core protocols of the IPv6 suite,
      and provides in IPv6 similar functions to those provided in the IPv4
      protocol suite by the Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) and the
      Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP).  Its increased flexibility
      implies a somewhat increased complexity, which has resulted in a
      number of bugs and vulnerabilities found in popular implementations.
      This document provides guidance in the implementation of Neighbor
      Discovery, and documents issues that have affected popular
      implementations, in the hopes that the same issues do not repeat in
      other implementations.

  "A PCE-based Architecture for Application-based Network Operations",
  Daniel King, Adrian Farrel, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-farrkingel-pce-abno-architecture-06.txt>

      Services such as content distribution, distributed databases, or
      inter-data center connectivity place a set of new requirements on the
      operation of networks.  They need on-demand and application-specific
      reservation of network connectivity, reliability, and resources (such
      as bandwidth) in a variety of network applications (such as point-to-
      point connectivity, network virtualization, or mobile back-haul) and
      in a range of network technologies from packet (IP/MPLS) down to
      optical.  An environment that operates to meet this type of
      requirement is said to have Application-Based Network Operations
      (ABNO).
      
      ABNO brings together many existing technologies for gathering
      information about the resources available in a network, for
      consideration of topologies and how those topologies map to
      underlying network resources, for requesting path computation, and
      for provisioning or reserving network resources.  Thus, ABNO may be
      seen as the use of a toolbox of existing components enhanced with a
      few new elements.  The key component within an ABNO is the Path
      Computation Element (PCE), which can be used for computing paths and
      is further extended to provide policy enforcement capabilities for
      ABNO.
      
      This document describes an architecture and framework for ABNO
      showing how these components fit together.  It provides a cookbook of
      existing technologies to satisfy the architecture and meet the needs
      of the applications.

  "Architecture for MANET Clustering", Sanghyun Ahn, Hyogon Kim,
  2013-05-13, <draft-ahn-manet-clustering-architecture-01.txt>

      This document describes the architecture for clustering in the MANET
      which can be an efficient communication structure for the case
      when MANET nodes have the tendency of forming groups. In this type of
      MANET, each group of nodes forms a cluster which is represented by a
      cluster head. In this draft, we define the terminology for the MANET
      clustering and the related communication procedure.

  "AODV Extensions for MANET Clustering", Sanghyun Ahn, Seoul University,
  2013-05-13, <draft-ahn-manet-clustering-aodv-01.txt>

      This document describes an extention on AODV [1] so that clustering
      of MANET nodes can be allowed for the improvement of MANET
      scalability. MANET clustering requires some MANET nodes to become
      Cluster Heads (CHs) and each non-CH MANET nodes to belong to any one
      appropriate cluster which is represented by a CH node.In this draft,
      AODV control messages are extended for MANET clustering.

  "remoteStorage", Michiel de Jong, F. Kooman, 2013-06-08,
  <draft-dejong-remotestorage-01.txt>

      This draft describes a protocol by which client-side applications,
      running inside a web browser, can communicate with a data storage
      server that is hosted on a different domain name. This way, the
      provider of a web application need not also play the role of data
      storage provider. The protocol supports storing, retrieving, and
      removing individual documents, as well as listing the contents of an
      individual directory, and access control is based on bearer tokens.

  "Requirements for Marking SIP Messages to be Logged", Peter Dawes,
  2013-10-18, <draft-dawes-dispatch-logme-reqs-03.txt>

      SIP networks use signalling monitoring tools to diagnose user
      reported problem and for regression testing if network or client
      software is upgraded.  As networks grow and become interconnected,
      including connection via transit networks, it becomes impractical to
      predict the path that SIP signalling will take between clients, and
      therefore impractical to monitor SIP signalling end-to-end.
      
      This draft describes requirements for adding an indicator to the SIP
      protocol which can be used to mark signalling as of interest to
      logging.  Such marking will typically be applied as part of network
      testing controlled by the network operator and not used in regular
      client signalling.  However, such marking can be carried end-to-end
      including the SIP terminals, even if a session originates and
      terminates in different networks.

  "Intellectual Property Rights in IETF Technology", Scott Bradner, Jorge
  Contreras, 2013-10-11, <draft-bradner-rfc3979bis-06.txt>

      The IETF policies about Intellectual Property Rights (IPR), such as
      patent rights, relative to technologies developed in the IETF are
      designed to ensure that IETF working groups and participants have as
      much information about any IPR constraints on a technical proposal as
      possible.  The policies are intended to benefit the Internet
      community and the public at large, while respecting the legitimate
      rights of IPR holders.  This memo details the IETF policies
      concerning IPR related to technology worked on within the IETF.  It
      also describes the objectives that the policies are designed to meet.
      This memo updates RFC 2026 and obsoletes RFC 3979 and RFC 4879.

  "Via header field parameter to indicate received realm", Christer
  Holmberg, Yi Jiang, 2013-06-14,
  <draft-holmberg-sipcore-received-realm-01.txt>

      This specification defines a new Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)
      Via header field parameter, "received-realm", which allows a SIP
      entity acting as an entry point to a transit network to indicate from
      which adjacent upstream network a SIP request is received, using a
      network realm value associated with the adjacent network.

  "Compact representation of an elliptic curve point", Andrey Jivsov,
  2013-06-04, <draft-jivsov-ecc-compact-02.txt,.pdf>

      This document defines a format for efficient storage representation
      of an elliptic curve point over prime fields, suitable for use with
      any IETF format or protocol.

  "Delay Limits and Multiplexing Policies to be employed with Tunneling
  Compressed Multiplexed Traffic Flows", Mirko Suznjevic, Jose Saldana,
  2013-06-14, <draft-suznjevic-tsvwg-mtd-tcmtf-01.txt,.pdf>

      This document contains recommendations to be taken into account when
      using methods which optimize bandwidth utilization through
      compression, multiplexing, and tunneling traffic flows (TCMTF) over a
      network path.  Different multiplexing policies and implementation
      issues which are service and link specific are discussed.
      Additionally, this document describes policies which can be used for
      detecting, classifying, and choosing the network flows suitable for
      optimization by using TCMTF.  Finally, recommendations of maximum
      tolerable delays to be added by optimization techniques are reported.
      Recommendations are presented only for network services for which
      such bandwidth optimization techniques are applicable (i.e., services
      with low payload to header size ratio, which will also be denoted as
      "small-packet flows").

  "Requirements for Automated (Configuration) Management", Mohamed
  Boucadair, Christian Jacquenet, 2013-06-10,
  <draft-boucadair-network-automation-requirements-01.txt>

      Given the ever-increasing complexity of the configuration tasks
      required for the dynamic provisioning of IP networks and services,
      this document aims at listing the requirements to drive the
      specification of an automated configuration management framework,
      including the requirements for a protocol to convey configuration
      information towards the managed entities.

  "Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP): Auxiliary Object Class
  'mailboxRelatedObject'", Michael Stroeder, 2013-08-08,
  <draft-stroeder-mailboxrelatedobject-04.txt>

      This document defines the auxiliary object class
      'mailboxRelatedObject' that can be used to associate an arbitrary
      object with an Internet mail address.  Furthermore an attribute
      'intlMailAdr' is defined for storing fully internationalized Internet
      mail addresses.

  "Analysis of RSVP-TE Security According to KARP Design Guide", Mahesh
  Jethanandani, Dacheng Zhang, 2013-05-20,
  <draft-mahesh-karp-rsvp-te-analysis-01.txt>

      This document analyzes Resource reSerVation Protocol-Traffic
      Engineering (RSVP-TE) according to guidelines set forth in section
      4.2 of KARP Design Guidelines (RFC 6518).

  "The WebSocket Protocol as a Transport for the Message Session Relay
  Protocol (MSRP)", Peter Dunkley, Gavin Llewellyn, Victor Pascual,
  2013-05-10, <draft-pd-dispatch-msrp-websocket-02.txt>

      The WebSocket protocol enables two-way real-time communication
      between clients and servers.  This document specifies a new WebSocket
      sub-protocol as a reliable transport mechanism between MSRP (Message
      Session Relay Protocol) clients and relays to enable usage of MSRP in
      new scenarios.  This document normatively updates RFC 4975 and RFC
      4976.

  "ALTO Server Discovery based on well-known IP Address", Sebastian
  Kiesel, Reinaldo Penno, 2013-06-27,
  <draft-kiesel-alto-ip-based-srv-disc-02.txt>

      The goal of Application-Layer Traffic Optimization (ALTO) is to
      provide guidance to applications that have to select one or several
      hosts from a set of candidates capable of providing a desired
      resource.  ALTO is realized by a client-server protocol.
      
      This document establishes a well-known IP address for the ALTO
      service and specifies how ALTO clients embedded in the resource
      consumer can use it to access the ALTO service.
      
      Terminology and Requirements Language
      
      This document makes use of the ALTO terminology defined in RFC 5693
      [RFC5693].

  "A ROA Status Attribute for RPSL Objects", Larry Blunk, 2013-06-14,
  <draft-blunk-rpsl-roa-01.txt>

      This document describes an attribute for Routing Policy Specification
      Language (RPSL) route and route6 objects that documents the presence
      and validity of a Route Origin Authorization (ROA) for the given
      prefix and origin values contained within the object.  It allows
      parties who employ Internet Routing Registries (IRR's) for routing
      policy configuration generation to easily ascertain whether a given
      object has a ROA covering the object.  The primary objective is to
      enable existing IRR tools to make use of the ROA information with
      minimal modifications.

  "Backup Path for Point-to-Point Routes in Low Power and Lossy Networks",
  Dinh-Sy Do, Ngoc-Thanh Dinh, Young-Han Kim, 2013-06-18,
  <draft-do-roll-p2p-backup-01.txt>

      In this draft, a backup path setup mechanism is proposed for the
      P2P-RPL protocol in Low Power and Lossy Networks (LLNs). This
      mechanism allows sensor nodes to send packets over the backup path
      without rediscovering the p2p path in case of path failure, thus
      improving the reliability of p2p transmission.

  "Large-Scale Broadband Measurement Use Cases", Marc Linsner, Philip
  Eardley, Trevor Burbridge, 2013-10-02,
  <draft-linsner-lmap-use-cases-04.txt>

      Measuring broadband performance on a large scale is important for
      network diagnostics by providers and users, as well for as public
      policy.  To conduct such measurements, user networks gather data,
      either on their own initiative or instructed by a measurement
      controller, and then upload the measurement results to a designated
      measurement server.  Understanding the various scenarios and users of
      measuring broadband performance is essential to development of the
      system requirements.  The details of the measurement metrics
      themselves are beyond the scope of this document.

  "OAuth 2.0 Resource Set Registration", Thomas Hardjono, 2013-06-29,
  <draft-hardjono-oauth-resource-reg-01.txt>

      This specification defines a resource set registration mechanism
      between an OAuth 2.0 authorization server and resource server.  The
      resource server registers information about the semantics and
      discovery properties of its resources with the authorization server.

  "Encapsulating IP in UDP", KuiKe Building, Lucy Yong, Yiu Lee, Fan
  Yongbing, Rajiv Asati, Iljitsch van Beijnum, 2013-06-30,
  <draft-xu-softwire-ip-in-udp-02.txt>

      Existing Softwire encapsulation technologies are not adequate for
      efficient load balancing of Softwire service traffic across IP
      networks. This document specifies additional Softwire encapsulation
      technology, referred to as IP-in-User Datagram Protocol (UDP), which
      can facilitate the load balancing of Softwire service traffic across
      IP networks.

  "OCSP-lite - Revocation of raw public keys", Bert Greevenbosch,
  2013-06-06, <draft-greevenbosch-tls-ocsp-lite-01.txt>

      This document provides an online mechanism for checking the
      revocation status of raw public keys.  The mechanism is based on its
      older brother for X.509 certificates, OCSP.
      
      Note
      
      Discussion and suggestions for improvement are requested, and should
      be sent to tls@ietf.org.

  "End-point based Multimedia QoE Management", Bhumip Khasnabish, Gerard
  Fernando, Lin Ya, 2013-07-07,
  <draft-khasnabish-dispatch-qoe-management-02.txt>

      This draft describes a method for improving the quality of experience
      (QoE) for real-time video and other multimedia services using
      features and functions of the end-point only, that is, without
      requiring any upgrade to the network transport infrastructure.  Any
      upgrade to the network transport infrastructure not only incurs
      significant costs, these are also time consuming and technology-
      dependent.  Therefore, these QoE improvement mechanisms are
      significantly more attractive to both network operators and service
      providers.

  "A Simple Secure Address Generation Scheme for IPv6 AutoConfiguration
  (SSAS)",  Hosnieh, Christoph Meinel, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-rafiee-6man-ssas-06.txt>

      The purpose of this document is to address the current problem
      inherent with using of Cryptographically Generated Addresses (CGA)
      [RFC3972] and introduces a new algorithm that can eliminate the cost
      of CGA algorithm. This algorithm also responds to the security issues
      (IP spoofing) exists in Privacy Extension [RFC4941] document by
      integrating privacy with the security.

  "Self-published IP Geolocation Data", Erik Kline, Krzysztof Duleba,
  Zoltan Szamonek, 2013-07-28,
  <draft-google-self-published-geofeeds-02.txt>

      This document records a format whereby a network operator can publish
      a mapping of IP address ranges to simplified geolocation information,
      colloquially termed a geolocation "feed".  Interested parties can
      poll and parse these feeds to update or merge with other geolocation
      data sources and procedures.
      
      Some technical organizations operating networks that move from one
      conference location to the next have already experimentally published
      small geolocation feeds.  At least one consumer (Google) has
      incorporated these ad hoc feeds into a geolocation data pipeline.

  "List of Internet Official Protocol Standards: Replaced by an Online
  Database", Sandy Ginoza, 2013-09-11,
  <draft-rfced-rfcxx00-retired-06.txt>

      At one time, the RFC Editor published snapshots of the "Internet
      Official Protocol Standards".  These documents were known as xx00
      documents, the last of which was published in May 2008.  These
      snapshots have been replaced by an online database, so the RFC Editor
      will will no longer be publishing these snapshots as RFCs.  As a
      result, the RFC Editor will classify unpublished RFC xx00 numbers
      through 7000 as never issued.  Starting with RFC 7100, xx00 numbers
      will be available for assignment.

  "Traffic Management Benchmarking", Barry Constantine, Timothy Copley,
  Ram Krishnan, 2013-09-04,
  <draft-constantine-bmwg-traffic-management-02.txt>

      This framework describes a practical methodology for benchmarking the
      traffic management capabilities of networking devices (i.e. policing,
      shaping, etc.). The goal is to provide a repeatable test method that
      objectively compare performance of the device's traffic management
      capabilities and to specify the means to benchmark traffic management
      with representative application traffic.

  "TRILL: Parent Selection in Distribution Trees", Howard Yang, Ayan
  Banerjee, Donald Eastlake, Radia Perlman, 2013-07-09,
  <draft-yang-trill-parent-seletion-01.txt>

      This document describes a protocol extension in TRILL IS-IS and a
      parent selection tiebreak algorithm in the calculation of
      distribution trees in TRILL. The proposal is to modify the current
      algorithm to improve the stability of the distribution trees when
      multiple equal cost parents are present. It also offers the
      capabilities of pinning down multi-destination traffic and re-shaping
      the distribution trees to improve the traffic load balancing.

  "ICN Wireless Sensor and Actor Network BaseLine Scenarios", Ngoc-Thanh
  Dinh, Young-Han Kim, 2013-06-24,
  <draft-dinh-icn-sensor-scenarios-01.txt>

      This document presents scenarios for information centric wireless
      sensor and actor networks. The scenarios selected for inclusion in
      this first draft aim to exercise a variety of aspects in wireless
      sensor and actor network that an ICN solution could address.

  "Considerations with WebRTC in Mobile Networks", Tirumaleswar Reddy,
  John Kaippallimalil, Ram R, Richard Ejzak, 2013-05-09,
  <draft-reddy-rtcweb-mobile-03.txt>

      This document discusses some of the issues with WebRTC applications
      in Mobile Networks.

  "A Media Type for XML Patch Operations", Erik Wilde, 2013-10-08,
  <draft-wilde-xml-patch-06.txt>

      The XML Patch media type "application/xml-patch+xml" defines an XML
      document structure for expressing a sequence of patch operations that
      are applied to an XML document.  The XML Patch document format's
      foundations are defined in RFC 5261, this specification defines a
      document format and a media type registration, so that XML Patch
      documents can be labeled with a media type, for example in HTTP
      conversations.
      
      In addition to the media type registration, this specification also
      updates RFC 5261 in some aspects, limiting these updates to cases
      where RFC 5261 needed to be fixed, or was hard to understand.

  "A registry for commonly used metrics", Marcelo Bagnulo, Trevor
  Burbridge, Sam Crawford, Philip Eardley, Al Morton, 2013-07-14,
  <draft-bagnulo-ippm-new-registry-01.txt>

      This document creates a registry for commonly used metrics, defines
      the rules for assignments in the new registry and performs initial
      allocations.  This document proposes one particular registry
      structure with a single registry with multiple sub-registries.  A
      companion document draft-bagnulo-ippm-new-registry-independent
      explores an alternative structure with independent registries for
      each of the fields involved.  .

  "A registry for commonly used metrics. Independent registries", Marcelo
  Bagnulo, Trevor Burbridge, Sam Crawford, Philip Eardley, Al Morton,
  2013-07-14, <draft-bagnulo-ippm-new-registry-independent-01.txt>

      This document creates a registry for commonly used metrics, defines
      the rules for assignments in the new registry and performs initial
      allocations.  This document proposes one particular registry
      structure with independent registries for each of the fields
      involved.  A companion document draft-bagnulo-ippm-new-registry
      explores an alternative structure with a single registry with
      multiple sub-registries.

  "Chatrooms within a Centralized Conferencing (XCON) System", Mary
  Barnes, Chris Boulton, Salvatore Loreto, 2013-07-12,
  <draft-boulton-dispatch-session-chat-01.txt>

      The document "A Framework for Centralized Conferencing" defines a
      centralized conference as both signaling and protocol agnostic.  The
      primary examples within this framework focus on audio and video as
      the media types for the session.  This document provides an overview
      of the mechanisms defined in the centralized conferencing framework
      that can be used to support multi-user chat.  In addition, the
      document describes additional functionality and requirements
      necessary to provide feature rich functionality.

  "The problem statement of RBridge edge group state synchronization", Hao
  Weiguo, Li Yizhou, ZTE Corporation, 2013-07-08,
  <draft-hao-trill-rb-syn-01.txt>

      In TRILL multi-homing scenario, the concept of virtual RBridge in
      [TRILLPN], was introduced to address the MAC flip-flopping problem at
      remote RBridges. Based on virtual RBridge mechanism, Coordinated
      Multicast Trees (CMT) solution in [CMT] was introduced to solve the
      related RPF issues. In this document, additional problems are
      described regarding virtual Bridges members' state synchronization in
      multi-homing scenario, including virtual RBridge membership auto
      discovery, pseudo-nickname static configuration consistency check,
      dynamic pseudo-nickname allocation, CMT configuration
      synchronization ,LACP configuration and state synchronization,
      node/link failure detection, and MAC table synchronization. To
      address these problems, a communication protocol among members of a
      virtual RBridge group should be provided. Requirements for this
      protocol is also discussed.

  "Autonomous Extensible Internet with Network Address Multiplexing(AEIP
  NAM)", Yuping Diao, Diao Yongping, Ming Liao, 2013-07-28,
  <draft-diao-aeip-nam-01.txt>

      The two key issues of today's Internet are autonomy and
      extensibility. Autonomous Internet(AIP) technology can provide
      extensible internet architecture, own independent root DNS servers
      and self management internet network; Furthermore, based on the
      Autonomous Internet, here provides a way with extensible address
      capacity to solve IP address deficiency and realize
      Autonomous Extensible Internet(AEIP) with global network address
      and multiplexing local network address. This AEIP with Network
      Address Multiplexing(AEIP NAM) can realize autonomy and extensibility
      with minimal cost.

  "Flow-state Dependent Packet Selection Techniques", ramki, So Ning,
  Salvatore D'Antonio, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-krishnan-ipfix-flow-aware-packet-sampling-06.txt>

      The demands on the networking infrastructure and thus the
      switch/router bandwidths are growing exponentially; the drivers are
      bandwidth hungry rich media applications, inter data center
      communications etc. Using sampling techniques, for a given sampling
      rate, the amount of samples that need to be processed is increasing
      exponentially especially for applications like security threat
      detection. This draft elaborates on flow-state dependent packet
      selection techniques and the relevant information models. It
      describes how these techniques can be effectively used to reduce the
      number of samples for applications like security threat detection.

  "Coupled congestion control for RTP media", Michael Welzl, Safiqul
  Islam, Stein Gjessing, 2013-10-17, <draft-welzl-rmcat-coupled-cc-02.txt>

      When multiple congestion controlled RTP sessions traverse the same
      network bottleneck, it can be beneficial to combine their controls
      such that the total on-the-wire behavior is improved.  This document
      describes such a method for flows that have the same sender, in a way
      that is as flexible and simple as possible while minimizing the
      amount of changes needed to existing RTP applications.

  "Key Relay Mapping for the Extensible Provisioning Protocol", R. Gieben,
  M. Groeneweg, Rik Ribbers, Antoin Verschuren, 2013-07-11,
  <draft-gieben-epp-keyrelay-03.txt>

      This document describes an Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP)
      extension mapping for the purpose of relaying DNSSEC key material
      from one DNS operator to another, by using the administrative
      registration channel through the registrant, registrar and registry.
      The mapping introduces "<keyrelay>" as a new command in EPP.
      
      This command will help facilitate changing the DNS operator of a
      domain while keeping the DNSSEC chain of trust intact.

  "Writing I-Ds and RFCs using Pandoc and a bit of XML", R. Gieben,
  2013-10-15, <draft-gieben-pandoc2rfc-03.txt>

      This document presents a technique for using a Markdown syntax
      variant, called Pandoc, and a (bit) of XML [RFC2629] as a source
      format for documents in the Internet-Drafts (I-Ds) and Request for
      Comments (RFC) series.
      
      The goal of this technique is to let an author of an I-D focus on the
      main body of text without being distracted too much by XML tags, it
      does however not alleviate the need to typeset some files in XML.

  "Registration Data Access Protocol Basic Search Processing", Scott
  Hollenbeck, Andrew Newton, 2013-06-18,
  <draft-hollenbeck-weirds-rdap-search-02.txt>

      This document describes path segments and query parameters needed to
      construct HTTP URLs that may be used to search for and retrieve
      registration information from registries (including both Regional
      Internet Registries (RIRs) and Domain Name Registries (DNRs)) using
      "RESTful" web access patterns.  It also describes a method of
      encoding responses using Javascript Object Notation (JSON).

  "Asymmetric OSPF Hold Timer", Madhukar Anand, Hasmit Grover, Abhay Roy,
  2013-06-16, <draft-madhukar-ospf-agr-asymmetric-01.txt>

      Current OSPF standard requires that the HELLO/Dead interval be
      symmetric on either side of the link in order to maintain adjacency.
      There are many scenarios in which this may not be desirable. This
      memo describes a technique to allow OSPF adjacency to be maintained
      with asymmetric values of the OSPF Dead interval.

  "Binding Obligations on User-Managed Access (UMA) Participants", Eve
  Maler, Thomas Hardjono, 2013-07-30, <draft-maler-oauth-umatrust-01.txt>

      User-Managed Access (UMA) is a profile of OAuth 2.0.  UMA defines how
      resource owners can control protected-resource access by clients
      operated by arbitrary requesting parties, where the resources reside
      on any number of resource servers, and where a centralized
      authorization server governs access based on resource owner policy.
      This document provides a contractual framework that defines the
      minimum obligations of parties that operate and use UMA-conforming
      software programs and services.  The goal of this framework is to
      support end-to-end legal enforceability of the terms and conditions
      of access sharing relationships between authorizing and requesting
      sides that use UMA.  The audience for this document includes
      technologists, legal professionals, and operators of UMA-conforming
      services.

  "IGP Extensions for Stateful PCE Discovery", Siva Sivabalan, Jan Medved,
  Xian Zhang, 2013-07-12, <draft-sivabalan-pce-disco-stateful-02.txt>

      When a PCE is a Label Switching Router (LSR) participating in the
      Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP), or even a server participating in
      IGP, its presence and path computation capabilities can be advertised
      using IGP flooding.  Such IGP extensions exist for OSPF and ISIS.
      This document specifies two new PCE capabilities advertised by IGP.

  "A Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) usage for Trickle ICE", Emil Ivov,
  Enrico Marocco, Christer Holmberg, 2013-10-13,
  <draft-ivov-mmusic-trickle-ice-sip-01.txt>

      The Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) protocol describes a
      Network Address Translator (NAT) traversal for UDP-based multimedia
      sessions established with the offer/answer model.  The ICE extension
      for Incremental Provisioning of Candidates (Trickle ICE) defines a
      mechanism that allows ICE agents to shorten session establishment
      delays by making the candidate gathering and connectivity checking
      phases of ICE non-blocking.
      
      This document defines usage semantics for Trickle ICE with SIP.

  "The "action" Link Relation", Ioseb Dzmanashvili, 2013-08-27,
  <draft-ioseb-dzmanashvili-action-link-relation-01.txt>

      RFC 5988 [RFC5988] standardized a means of indicating the
      relationships between resources on the Web. This specification
      defines the "action" link relation type that may be used to express
      the relationships between a resource and associated actions that may
      be performed against the context resource.
      
      Editorial Note (To be removed by RFC Editor)
      
      Distribution of this document is unlimited.  Comments should be sent
      to the IETF Apps-Discuss mailing list (see
      <https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/apps-discuss>).

  "CLUE Signaling", Paul Kyzivat, Lennard Xiao, Christian Groves, Robert
  Hansen, 2013-09-14, <draft-kyzivat-clue-signaling-05.txt>

      This document specifies how signaling is conducted in the course of
      CLUE sessions.  This includes how SIP/SDP signaling is applied to
      CLUE sessions as well as defining a CLUE-specific signaling protocol
      that complements SIP/SDP and supports negotiation of CLUE application
      level data.

  "Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for
  remote-initiated GMPLS LSP Setup", Zafar Ali, Siva Sivabalan, Clarence
  Filsfils, Robert Varga, Victor Lopez, Oscar de Dios, Xian Zhang,
  2013-10-21, <draft-ali-pce-remote-initiated-gmpls-lsp-02.txt,.pdf>

      Draft [I-D. draft-crabbe-pce-pce-initiated-lsp] specifies
      procedures that can be used for creation and deletion of PCE-
      initiated LSPs in the active stateful PCE model. However, this
      specification focuses on MPLS networks, and does not cover remote
      instantiation of paths in GMPLS-controlled networks. This document
      complements [I-D. draft-crabbe-pce-pce-initiated-lsp] by addressing
      the requirements for remote-initiated GMPLS LSPs.

  "Using JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Web Encryption (JWE) for
  Protecting JSON Web Key (JWK) Objects", Matthew Miller, 2013-06-13,
  <draft-miller-jose-jwe-protected-jwk-02.txt>

      This document specifies an approach to protecting a private key
      formatted as a JavaScript Syntax Object Notation (JSON) Web Key (JWK)
      object using JSON Web Encryption (JWE).  This document also specifies
      a set of algorithms for protecting such content using password-based
      cryptography.

  "Operational Issues Associated With Long IPv6 Header Chains", Warren
  Kumari, Joel Jaeggli, Ron Bonica, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-wkumari-long-headers-02.txt>

      This memo specifies requirements for IPv6 forwarders as they process
      packets with long header chains.  It also provides guidance for
      application developers whose applications might rely on long headers
      chains.
      
      As background, this memo explains how many ASIC-based IPv6 forwarders
      process packets and why processing of packets with long header chains
      might be problematic.

  "Candidate Technologies for COMAN", Bert Greevenbosch, Kepeng Li, Peter
  Van der Stok, 2013-07-05,
  <draft-greevenbosch-coman-candidate-tech-03.txt>

      This draft identifies candidate technologies and considerations for
      the COMAN use cases and requirements.
      
      Note
      
      Discussion and suggestions for improvement are requested, and should
      be sent to coman@ietf.org.

  "IPv4-IPv6 Multicast Address Dynamic Conversion", Yalin Cao, Cui Wang,
  Wei Meng, Bhumip Khasnabish, 2013-06-30,
  <draft-cao-sunset4-v4v6-mcast-addr-conversion-02.txt>

      This draft describes a mechanism for stateless conversion of IPv4
      multicast address to IPv6 multicast address and vice versa,using
      different rules.  These rules can be used in both IPv4-IPv6
      translation or encapsulation.  This solution can be used in any
      scenarios describe in [RFC6144].

  "Interconnecting IPv6 Multicast Islands over IPv4 Using IPv6 Multicast
  Provider Edge Routers", Cui Wang, Wei Meng, Bhumip Khasnabish, Jie Hu,
  2013-10-10, <draft-wang-mboned-glo-ipv6-mcast-reachability-01.txt>

      This draft presents a method to interconnect IPv6 multicast islands
      over an IPv4 cloud.  This method relies on IPv6 Multicast Provider
      Edge routers (6MPE), which support Dual-Stack and in order to connect
      IPv6 multicast islands to the IPv4 core.  The 6MPE routers extend the
      Multiprotocol Border Gateway Protocol(MP-BGP), define a new Network
      Layer Reachability Information(NLRI) called MCAST-IPv6 NLRI, and
      exchange the IPv6 multicast reachability information transparently
      over the IPv4 core using the MP-BGP.

  "Length Hiding Padding for the Transport Layer Security Protocol",
  Alfredo Pironti, Nikos Mavrogiannopoulos, 2013-09-11,
  <draft-pironti-tls-length-hiding-02.txt>

      This memo proposes length hiding methods of operation for the TLS
      protocol.  It defines a TLS extension to allow arbitrary amount of
      padding in any TLS ciphersuite, and it presents guidelines and a
      reference implementation of record fragmentation and padding so that
      the length of the exchanged messages is effectively concealed within
      a given range of lengths.  The latter guidelines also apply to the
      standard TLS padding allowed by the TLS block ciphers.

  "Early IANA Allocation of Standards Track Code Points", Michelle Cotton,
  2013-10-16, <draft-cotton-rfc4020bis-02.txt>

      This memo describes the process for early allocation of code points
      by IANA from registries for which "Specification Required", "RFC
      Required", "IETF Review", or "Standards Action" policies apply.  This
      process can be used to alleviate the problem where code point
      allocation is needed to facilitate desired or required implementation
      and deployment experience prior to publication of an RFC that would
      normally trigger code point allocation.
      
      This document obsoletes RFC 4020.

  "PCP Anycast Address", Stuart Cheshire, 2013-07-14,
  <draft-cheshire-pcp-anycast-02.txt>

      The Port Control Protocol Anycast Address enables PCP clients to
      transmit messages to their closest on-path NAT, Firewall, or other
      middlebox, without having to learn the IP address of that middlebox
      via some external channel.

  "Using IEEE802.15.4e TSCH in an LLN context: Overview, Problem Statement
  and Goals", Thomas Watteyne, Maria Palattella, Luigi Grieco, 2013-05-23,
  <draft-watteyne-6tsch-tsch-lln-context-02.txt>

      This document describes the environment, problem statement, and goals
      for using the IEEE802.15.4e TSCH MAC protocol in the context of LLNs.
      The set of goals enumerated in this document form an initial set
      only.

  "Transmission of IPv6 packets over ITU-T G.9959 Networks", Anders
  Brandt, Jakob Buron, 2013-06-18, <draft-brandt-6man-lowpanz-02.txt,.pdf>

      This document describes the frame format for transmission of IPv6
      packets and a method of forming IPv6 link-local addresses and
      statelessly autoconfigured IPv6 addresses on ITU-T G.9959 networks.

  "Encrypt-then-MAC for TLS and DTLS", Peter Gutmann, 2013-10-04,
  <draft-gutmann-tls-encrypt-then-mac-04.txt>

      This document describes a means of negotiating the use of the
      encrypt-then-MAC security mechanism in place of TLS'/DTLS' existing
      MAC-then-encrypt one, which has been the subject of a number of
      security vulnerabilities over a period of many years.

  "Plan to Establish a Wisdom Task Force", Norbert Bollow, 2013-08-30,
  <draft-bollow-wisdomtaskforce-08.txt>

      This memo calls for the creation of a new governance forum named
      "Wisdom Task Force" (WisdomTF).  The main purpose of the WisdomTF is
      to facilitate consensus-seeking strategy-oriented discussions
      regarding governance actions that may be decided by national
      parliaments.

  "Normalization Marker for AF PHB Group in DiffServ", Cheng-Jia Lai,
  Wenyi Wang, Stan Yang, Toerless Eckert, Fred Yip, 2013-07-08,
  <draft-lai-tsvwg-normalizer-02.txt>

      In DiffServ, preferential dropping of packets in AF PHB groups has
      long been considered beneficial, typically for video flows with
      discardable packets.  Unfortunately, the ecosystem of bandwidth
      contention at congestion is very likely to discourage those video
      endpoints from generating packets with lower precedence markings,
      i.e. they would lose more packets if doing so.  Thus, to offer an
      incentive for more collaborative and mutually beneficial behaviors of
      video endpoints in AF PHB groups, we propose a Normalization Marker
      (NM) for traffic conditioning at network edges.  Deployment of NM
      will encourage the video endpoints to generate finer layers of intra-
      flow precedence (IFP) with discardable packets in more balanced
      distributions.

  "RADIUS Extended Request", Peter Deacon, 2013-05-01,
  <draft-deacon-radext-extended-request-01.txt>

      This document describes methods for RADIUS servers to communicate
      optional extended abilities to RADIUS clients. The abilities
      described provide for exchange of RADIUS packets where total packet
      length exceeds 4096 bytes.

  "ICN Research Challenges", Dirk Kutscher, Suyong Eum, Kostas
  Pentikousis, Ioannis Psaras, Daniel Corujo, Damien Saucez, Thomas
  Schmidt, Matthias Waehlisch, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-kutscher-icnrg-challenges-01.txt>

      This memo describes research challenges for Information-Centric
      Networking.  Information-centric networking is an approach to evolve
      the Internet infrastructure to directly support this use by
      introducing uniquely named data as a core Internet principle.  Data
      becomes independent from location, application, storage, and means of
      transportation, enabling in-network caching and replication.
      Challenges include naming, security, routing, system scalability,
      mobility management, wireless networking, transport services, in-
      network caching, and network management.

  "Resource Priority Header (RPH) Registry Management Policy to IETF
  Review", Brian Rosen, 2013-08-19, <draft-rosen-rph-reg-policy-01.txt>

      RFC4412 defines "Resource-Priority Namespaces" and "Resource-Priority
      Priority-values" registries.  The management policy of these
      registries is "Standards Action".  This document normatively updates
      RFC4412 ti change the management policy of these registries to "IETF
      Review".

  "User Defined Key Pair", Omar Omran, 2013-06-18,
  <draft-omar-tls-udkp-01.txt>

      In this document, I provide a high-level design for a new protocol in
      the application layer of the TCP/IP suite that will build a secure
      tunnel between the user's browser and the server without the
      involvement of any third party. My proposed protocol is called User-
      Defined Key Pair (UDKP), and its objective is to build a secure
      tunnel between the user's browser and the server using a
      public/private key pair generated for the user on the fly inside the
      user's browser based on the user credential information. This key
      pair will be used by the protocol instead of the server certificate
      as the starting point for creating the secure tunnel.

  "Authentication Context Certificate Extension", Stefan Santesson,
  2013-09-23, <draft-santesson-auth-context-extension-05.txt>

      This document defines an extension to certificates according to
      [RFC5280]. The extension defined in this document holds data about
      how the certificate subject was authenticated by the Certification
      Authority who issued the certificate where this extension appears.
      
      This document also defines one data structure for inclusion in this
      extension that designed to hold information when the subject is
      authenticated using a SAML assertion [SAML].

  "BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute for UDP", KuiKe Building, Zhenbin
  Li, Nischal Sheth, Yiu Lee, Fan Yongbing, Rajiv Asati, 2013-07-02,
  <draft-xu-softwire-encaps-udp-01.txt>

      This document specifies a new Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Tunnel
      Type of User Datagram Protocol (UDP) tunnels.

  "PCP Flow Examples", Mohamed Boucadair, 2013-06-10,
  <draft-boucadair-pcp-flow-examples-02.txt>

      This document provides a set of examples to illustrate PCP
      operations.  It is a companion document to the base PCP
      specification.

  "PCP Authentication Requirements", Tirumaleswar Reddy, Prashanth Patil,
  Dan Wing, Reinaldo Penno, 2013-07-10, <draft-reddy-pcp-auth-req-04.txt>

      In an attempt to reach consensus on a PCP authentication mechanism,
      this document describes requirements for PCP authentication.  It is
      hoped this can serve as the basis for a comparison of PCP
      authentication mechanisms.

  "Overlay Network - Path Computation Approaches", Snigdho Bardalai,
  Khuzema Pithewan, Rajan Rao, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-bardalai-ccamp-overlay-path-comp-02.txt>

      This document discusses various path computations approaches which
      are applicable to overlay networks [framework doc ref]. It discusses
      how the customer edge nodes uses the information advertised by the
      provider network to compute a path between two customer edge nodes or
      how it can request the provider network to compute a path and setup
      an end-2-end LSP.

  "DECADE: DECoupled Application Data Enroute", Richard Alimi, Akbar
  Rahman, Dirk Kutscher, Yang Yang, Haibin Song, Kostas Pentikousis,
  2013-06-10, <draft-alimi-protocol-01.txt>

      Content distribution applications, such as those those employing
      peer-to-peer (P2P) technologies, are widely used on the Internet and
      make up a large portion of the traffic in many networks.  Often,
      however, content distribution applications use network resources in a
      counter-productive manner.  One way to improve efficiency is to
      introduce storage capabilities within the network and enable
      cooperation between end-host and in-network content distribution
      mechanisms.  This is the capability provided by a DECADE-compatible
      system, which is introduced in this document.  DECADE enables
      applications to take advantage of in-network storage when
      distributing data objects as opposed to using solely end-to-end
      resources.  This document presents the underlying principles and key
      functionalities of such a system and illustrates operation through a
      set of examples.

  "Topology API Use Cases", Jan Medved, Stefano Previdi, Victor Lopez,
  Shane Amante, 2013-10-20, <draft-amante-i2rs-topology-use-cases-01.txt>

      This document describes use cases for gathering routing, forwarding
      and policy information, (hereafter referred to as topology
      information), about the network.  It describes several applications
      that need to view the topology of the underlying physical or logical
      network.  This document further demonstrates a need for a "Topology
      Manager" and related functions that collects topology data from
      network elements and other data sources, coalesces the collected data
      into a coherent view of the overall network topology, and normalizes
      the network topology view for use by clients -- namely, applications
      that consume topology information.

  "The Virtual Private Network (VPN) Service in ALTO: Use Cases,
  Requirements and Extensions", Michael Scharf, Vijay Gurbani, Greg
  Soprovich, Volker Hilt, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-scharf-alto-vpn-service-01.txt>

      The Application-Layer Traffic Optimization (ALTO) protocol is
      designed to allow entities with knowledge about the network
      infrastructure to export such information to applications that need
      to choose one or more resources from a candidate set.  This document
      provides motivation for using ALTO in a Virtual Private Network (VPN)
      environment.  We discuss use cases, requirements, and possible
      extensions to the base ALTO protocol that will be needed to support
      VPN services.

  "IANA Guidance for Managing the ULE Registry", Gorry Fairhurst,
  2013-06-18, <draft-fairhurst-ipdvb-ule-iana-03.txt>

      This document proposes an update to RFC 4326 to clarify and update
      the allocation rules for the Unidirectional Lightweight Encapsulation
      (ULE) next header registry.  This registry is used by ULE and Generic
      Stream Encapsulation (GSE) to record the codepoints of extension
      headers and protocols supported by these encapsulation protocols.

  "Mobility Anchor Selection in DMM: Use-case Scenarios", Hassan
  Ali-Ahmad, Danny Moses, Hassnaa Moustafa, Pierrick Seite, Tiago
  Condexia, 2013-07-11, <draft-aliahmad-dmm-anchor-selection-01.txt,.pdf>

      This document presents and discusses different use-case scenarios of
      mobility anchor selection in Distributed Mobility Management (DMM).

  "A Comparison of IPv6 over IPv4 Tunnel Mechanisms", S.J.M. Steffann,
  Iljitsch van Beijnum, Rick van Rein, 2013-05-31,
  <draft-steffann-tunnels-04.txt>

      This document provides an overview of various ways to tunnel IPv6
      packets over IPv4 networks.  It covers mechanisms in current use,
      touches on several mechanisms that are now only of historic interest,
      and discusses some newer tunnel mechanisms that are not (yet) widely
      used at the time of publication.  The goal of the document is helping
      people with an IPv6-in-IPv4 tunneling need to select the mechanisms
      that may apply to them.

  "Microloop prevention by introducting a local convergence delay",
  Stephane Litkowski, Bruno Decraene, Pierre Francois, 2013-08-19,
  <draft-litkowski-rtgwg-uloop-delay-01.txt>

      This document describes a mechanism for link-state routing protocols
      to prevent a subset of transient loops during topology changes.  It
      introduces a two-step convergence by introducing a delay between the
      network wide convergence and the node advertising the failure.  As
      the network wide convergence is delayed in case of down events, this
      mechanism can be used for planned maintenance or for unplanned outage
      provided a fast reroute mechanism is used in conjunction to convert a
      failure into a less urgent topology change.
      
      Simulation using real network topologies and costs, with pathological
      convergence behaviour, have been performed.  While the proposed
      mechanism does not provide a complete solution, it is simple and it
      solves an interesting fraction of the transient loops in the analyzed
      SP topologies.

  "Ruoska Encoding", JPM, 2013-10-12, <draft-ruoska-encoding-06.txt>

      This document describes hierarchically structured binary encoding
      format called Ruoska Encoding (later RSK).  The main design goals are
      minimal resource usage, well defined structure with good selection of
      widely known data types, and still extendable for future usage.
      
      The main benefit when compared to non binary hierarchically
      structured formats like XML is simplicity and minimal resource
      demands.  Even basic XML parsing is time and memory consuming
      operation.
      
      When compared to other binary formats like BER encoding of ASN.1 the
      main benefit is simplicity.  ASN.1 with many different encodings is
      complex and even simple implementation needs a lot of effort.  RSK is
      also more efficient than BER.

  "PCP Server Discovery based on well-known IP Address", Sebastian Kiesel,
  Reinaldo Penno, 2013-08-19, <draft-kiesel-pcp-ip-based-srv-disc-01.txt>

      The Port Control Protocol (PCP) provides a mechanism to control how
      incoming packets are forwarded by upstream devices such as Network
      Address Translator IPv6/IPv4 (NAT64), Network Address Translator
      IPv4/IPv4 (NAT44), IPv6 and IPv4 firewall devices, and a mechanism to
      reduce application keep alive traffic.
      
      This document establishes a well-known IP address for the PCP Server
      and documents how PCP clients embedded in endpoints can use it during
      the discovery and regular operation phases.

  "On the Validation of TCP Sequence Numbers", Fernando Gont, David
  Borman, 2013-09-10, <draft-gont-tcpm-tcp-seq-validation-01.txt>

      When TCP receives packets that lie outside of the receive window, the
      corresponding packets are dropped and either an ACK, RST or no
      response is generated due to the out-of-window packet, with no
      further processing of the packet.  Most of the time, this works just
      fine and TCP remains stable, especially when a TCP connection has
      unidirectional data flow.  However, there are three scenarios in
      which packets that are outside of the receive window should still
      have their ACK field processed, or else a packet war will take place.
      The aforementioned issues have affected a number of popular TCP
      implementations, typically leading to connection failures, system
      crashes, or other undesirable behaviors.  This document describes the
      three scenarios in which the aforementioned issues might arise, and
      formally updates RFC 793 such that these potential problems are
      mitigated.

  "Integration Examples of DECADE System", Ning Zong, Xiaohui Chen,
  Zhigang Huang, Lijiang Chen, Hongqiang Liu, 2013-08-30,
  <draft-zong-integration-example-02.txt>

      Decoupled Application Data Enroute (DECADE) system is an in-network
      storage infrastructure which was discussed in IETF.  This document
      presents two detailed examples of how to integrate such in-network
      storage infrastructure into peer-to-peer (P2P) applications to
      achieve more efficient content distribution, and Application Layer
      Traffic Optimization (ALTO) system to build a content distribution
      platform for Content Providers (CPs).

  "Tenant system information discovery approaches Gap analysis", Liang
  Xia, Qin Wu, 2013-06-28, <draft-wu-nvo3-mac-learning-arp-03.txt>

      This document analyzes various protocol solutions for tenant system
      information (e.g.  MAC, IP, etc) discovery in the virtualization
      environment (e.g.,MAC in MAC, MAC in IP, IP in IP) and identifies the
      gap against NVO3 control plane and data plane requirements.

  "Additional Policies for the Partial Delivery Extension of the Stream
  Control Transmission Protocol", Michael Tuexen, Robin Seggelmann,
  Randall Stewart, Salvatore Loreto, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-tuexen-tsvwg-sctp-prpolicies-03.txt>

      This document defines policies for the Partial Reliability Extension
      of the Stream Control Transmission Protocol (PR-SCTP) allowing to
      limit the number of retransmissions or to prioritize user messages
      for more efficient send buffer usage.

  "TRILL: Vendor Specific TRILL Channel Protocol", Donald Eastlake, Li
  Yizhou, Hao Weiguo, Ayan Banerjee, 2013-08-19,
  <draft-eastlake-trill-vendor-channel-01.txt>

      The IETF TRILL (TRansparent Interconnection of Lots of Links)
      protocol is implemented by devices called TRILL switches or RBridges
      (Routing Bridges). TRILL includes a general mechanism, called RBridge
      Channel, for the transmission of typed messages between RBridges in
      the same campus and between RBridges and end stations on the same
      link. This document specifies how to send vendor specific messages
      over the RBridge Channel facility.

  "A One-Way Loss Metric for IPPM", Guy Almes, Matthew Zekauskas, Al
  Morton, 2013-08-20, <draft-morton-ippm-2680-bis-01.txt>

      This memo (RFC 2680 bis) defines a metric for one-way loss of packets
      across Internet paths.  It builds on notions introduced and discussed
      in the IPPM Framework document, RFC 2330; the reader is assumed to be
      familiar with that document.

  "OSPF Extensions for MPLS Green Traffic Engineering", Gang Yan, Jianjun
  Yang, Zhenbin Li, 2013-10-14, <draft-li-ospf-ext-green-te-01.txt>

      The energy-saving is one important topic in the world, and now most
      of technologies for energy-saving focus on the hardware design
      instead of the energy saving design based on the whole network.  This
      document proposes OSPF extensions to synchronize the energy
      consumption parameter of each node in the network.  These parameters
      can be used for the energy saving design.

  "Alternative Constraints for Point-to-Multipoint Traffic-Engineered MPLS
  Label Switched Path(LSP)", Zhenbin Li, Tieying Huang, Lei, 2013-10-13,
  <draft-li-mpls-p2mp-te-alt-path-01.txt>

      The document proposes a solution to be able to set up the alternative
      path for specific leaf nodes of a P2MP TE LSP.  Corresponding RSVP-TE
      protocol extension is also defined.  The solution is used to cope
      with the issue that in some scenarios traffic loss happens even if
      there exists possible path for the leaf nodes.

  "PAWS Database Discovery", Xinpeng Wei, Lei Zhu, 2013-10-15,
  <draft-wei-paws-database-discovery-02.txt>

      This document provides a Database Discovery mechanism for PAWS.  By
      this mechanism the master device gets the available WSDBs with which
      it should communicate as well as the regulatory domain information.
      The mechanism is based on the LoST protocol .

  "IPv6 Source/Destination Routing using OSPFv3", Fred Baker, 2013-08-28,
  <draft-baker-ipv6-ospf-dst-src-routing-03.txt>

      This note describes the changes necessary for OSPFv3 to route IPv6
      traffic from a specified prefix to a specified prefix.

  "Using OSPFv3 with Token-based Access Control", Fred Baker, 2013-08-28,
  <draft-baker-ipv6-ospf-dst-flowlabel-routing-03.txt>

      This note describes the changes necessary for OSPF to route IPv6
      traffic specified prefix if and only if the packet contains an
      authorization token.

  "Using IS-IS with Token-based Access Control", Fred Baker, 2013-08-28,
  <draft-baker-ipv6-isis-dst-flowlabel-routing-01.txt>

      This note describes the changes necessary for IS-IS to route IPv6
      traffic specified prefix if and only if the packet contains an
      authorization token.

  "IPv6 Source/Destination Routing using IS-IS", Fred Baker, 2013-08-28,
  <draft-baker-ipv6-isis-dst-src-routing-01.txt>

      This note describes the changes necessary for IS-IS to route IPv6
      traffic from a specified prefix to a specified prefix.

  "Analysis of NAT64 Port Allocation Method", Gang Chen, 2013-07-14,
  <draft-chen-sunset4-cgn-port-allocation-02.txt>

      The document enumerates methods of port assignment in CGN contexts,
      more focusing on a NAT64 environment.  The analysis categorizes the
      different methods with several key features.  The uses of existing
      protocols are further described corresponding to those features.
      This memo also states the port-usage experiences, relevant findings,
      evaluations and workarounds.  It's expected the document could
      provide an informative base line to help operators choosing a proper
      method.

  "A Virtualized Network Element Framework", Kenji Kumaki, Prodosh
  Mohapatra, David Meyer, Kannan Varadhan, Zafar Ali, 2013-07-11,
  <draft-kumaki-vnef-01.txt>

      This document outlines a new architectural paradigm of virtualizing
      the service provider networks and its associated engineering
      requirements.  The framework is referred to as the virtual network
      element framework (VNEF) in the document.

  "Using DMARC", Dave Crocker, 2013-04-29,
  <draft-crocker-dmarc-bcp-02.txt>

      Email abuse often relies on unauthorized use of a domain name, such
      as one belonging to a well-known company (brand).  SPF and DKIM
      provide basic domain name authentication methods for email.  A recent
      industry effort built an additional authentication-based layer,
      called Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting & Conformance
      (DMARC).  It allows a sender to indicate that their emails are
      protected by SPF and/or DKIM, and tells a receiver what to do if
      neither of those authentication methods passes; it also provides a
      reporting mechanism, from receivers back to domain owners.  Such
      capabilities over the public Internet are unusual and their use is
      not yet well-understood.  This document formulates a set of best
      practices for the use of DMARC.

  "Extension to Purge Initiator Identification TLV for ISIS in TRILL",
  Gang Chen, 2013-07-15, <draft-chen-trill-isis-purge-01.txt>

      This memo specified an extension of ISIS TLV for identifying purge
      initiator in TRILL environments.  With the extension, it's beneficial
      for operators to nail down the root cause when there is a corrupted
      Link State Protocol (LSP) data unit spread within a layer-2 network.
      The defined TLV is expected to record Nickname and impacted VLAN
      information.  RBridge should propagate the TLV information without
      changes in order to flood the information.

  "OUI Registry Restructuring", Glenn Parsons, 2013-09-09,
  <draft-ieee-rac-oui-restructuring-01.txt>

      The IEEE Registration Authority Committee, which has oversight
      for the OUI based registries, is seeking IETF community input as
      it finalizes restructuring the OUI registries.  This document
      provides background on the RAC as well as explaining the proposed
      restructuring and the rationale.

  "Differentiated Service Class Recommendations for LLN Traffic",
  Shitanshu Shah, Pascal Thubert, 2013-08-19,
  <draft-svshah-tsvwg-lln-diffserv-recommendations-01.txt>

      Differentiated services architecture is widely deployed in
      traditional networks.  There exist well defined recommendations for
      the use of appropriate differentiated service classes for different
      types of traffic (eg. audio, video) in these networks.  Per-Hop
      Behaviors are typically defined based on this recommendations.  With
      emerging Low-power and Lossy Networks (LLNs), it is important to have
      similar defined differentiated services recommendations for LLN
      traffic.  Defined recommendations are for LLN class of traffic
      exiting out of LLNs towards high-speed backbones, converged campus
      network and for the traffic in the reverse direction.

  "Mutually Exclusive Link Group (MELG)", Vishnu Beeram, Igor Bryskin,
  2013-10-21, <draft-beeram-ccamp-melg-02.txt>

      This document introduces the concept of MELG ("Mutually Exclusive
      Link Group") and discusses its usage in the context of mutually
      exclusive Virtual TE Links.

  "Routing Extensions for Discovery of Role-based MPLS Label Switching
  Router (MPLS LSR) Traffic Engineering (TE) Mesh Membership", Zhenbin Li,
  Mach Chen, 2013-10-13, <draft-li-ccamp-role-based-automesh-01.txt>

      A Traffic Engnieering (TE) mesh-group is defined as a group of Label
      Switch Routers (LSRs) that are connected by a full mesh of TE LSPs.
      Routing (OSPF and IS-IS) extensions for discovery Multiprotocol Label
      Switching (MPLS) LSR TE mesh membership has been defined to automate
      the creation of mesh of TE LSPs.
      
      This document introduces a role-based TE mesh-group that applies to
      the scenarios where full mesh TE LSPs are not necessary and TE LSPs
      setup depends on the roles of LSRs in a TE mesh-group.  Interior
      Gateway Protocol (IGP) routing extensions for automatic discovery of
      role-based TE mesh membership are defined accordingly.

  "OSPF Extensions for Link State Database Synchronization Group", Gang
  Yan, Yuanjiao Liu, Xudong Zhang, 2013-10-14,
  <draft-ylz-ospf-lsdb-sync-group-01.txt>

      This document describes a special scheme of OSPF Database
      synchronization by dividing OSPF Routers into different groups and
      preventing OSPF Routers from different groups to synchronize, this
      scheme can help to enhance the number of OSPF adjacencies and the
      capability of deploying OSPF on large network.

  "DHCPv6/SLAAC Address Configuration Interaction Problem Statement", Bing
  Liu, Ron Bonica, 2013-09-16,
  <draft-liu-bonica-dhcpv6-slaac-problem-02.txt>

      This document analyzes the host behavior of DHCPv6/SLAAC interaction
      issue. It reviews the standard definition of the host behaviors and
      provides the test results of current mainstream implementations. Some
      potential operational gaps of the interaction are also described.

  "RTP/RTCP extension for RTP Splicing Notification", Jinwei Xia, Rachel
  Huang, Deng Lingli, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-xia-avtext-splicing-notification-02.txt>

      Content splicing is a process that replaces the content of a main
      multimedia stream with other multimedia content, and delivers the
      substitutive multimedia content to the receivers for a period of
      time. The RTP mixer is designed to handle RTP splicing in [RFC6828],
      but how the RTP mixer knows when to start and end the splicing is
      still unspecified.
      
      This memo defines two RTP/RTCP extensions to indicate the splicing
      related information to the RTP mixer: an RTP header extension that
      conveys the information in-band and an RTCP packet that conveys the
      information out-of-band.

  "Gateway-Initiated 4over6 Deployment", Yuchi Chen, Jianping Wu, Xiongyan
  Tang, Guangtao Zhou, 2013-08-27,
  <draft-chen-softwire-gw-init-4over6-02.txt>

      Gateway-Initiated 4over6 is a variant of Lightweight 4over6.  A
      Lightweight B4 in Lightweight 4over6 mechanism is a router which acts
      as a tunnel initiator for the IPv4-in-IPv6 tunnel.  This mechanism
      mainly focuses on the scenario in which an IPv4 address and related
      configuration information is configured to the device behind
      Lightweight B4.  Gateway-Initiated 4over6 uses the full IPv4 address
      rather than a shared address.  This enables an unmodified end server
      or host that is behind a Lightweight B4 to get access to the IPv4
      Internet through an IPv6 network.

  "Building Power-Efficient CoAP Devices for Cellular Networks", Jari
  Arkko, Anders Eriksson, Ari Keranen, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-arkko-lwig-cellular-01.txt>

      This memo discusses the use of the Constrained Application Protocol
      (CoAP) protocol in building sensors and other devices that employ
      cellular networks as a communications medium.  Building communicating
      devices that employ these networks is obviously well known, but this
      memo focuses specifically on techniques necessary to minimize power
      consumption.

  "IP Packet Loss Rate Measurement Testing and Problem Statement", Peng
  Fan, Lu Huang, Mach Chen, Nagendra Kumar, 2013-07-05,
  <draft-fan-opsawg-packet-loss-01.txt>

      This document describes common methods for measuring packet loss rate
      and their effectiveness.  Issues encountered when using the methods
      and necessary considerations are also discussed and recommended.

  "PCEP Extensions for MPLS-TE LSP Automatic Bandwidth Adjustment with
  stateful PCE", Dhruv Dhody, Udayasree Palle, 2013-07-28,
  <draft-dhody-pce-stateful-pce-auto-bandwidth-02.txt>

      The Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) provides
      mechanisms for Path Computation Elements (PCEs) to perform path
      computations in response to Path Computation Clients (PCCs) requests.
      The extensions described in [STATEFUL-PCE] provide stateful control
      of Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Traffic Engineering Label
      Switched Paths (TE LSP) via PCEP, for a model where the PCC delegates
      control over one or more locally configured LSPs to the PCE.
      
      This document describes the automatic bandwidth adjustment of such
      LSPs under the stateful PCE model.

  "Energy Efficient Implementation of IETF Constrained Protocol Suite",
  Zehn Cao, Xuan He, Matthias Kovatsch, Hui Tian, Carles Gomez,
  2013-10-21, <draft-hex-lwig-energy-efficient-02.txt>

      This document summarizes the problems and current practices of energy
      efficient protocol implementation on constrained devices, mostly
      about how to make the protocols within IETF scope behave energy
      friendly.  This document also summarizes the impact of link layer
      protocol power saving behaviors to the upper layer protocols, so that
      they can coordinately make the system energy efficient.

  "Proposed Control Plane requirements for Network Virtualization
  Overlays", Wang Danhua, Qin Wu, 2013-06-27,
  <draft-wu-nvo3-nve2nve-06.txt>

      This document looks at control plane aspect related to both tenant
      system to NVE control interface and NVE to Network Virtualization
      Authority (NVA) control interface NVE use to enable communication
      between tenant systems and focuses on NVE to NVA control interface,
      which is complementary to [draft-kreeger-nvo3-hypervisor-nve-cp] that
      describes the high level control plane requirements related to the
      interaction between tenant system and NVE when the two entities are
      not co-located on the same physical device.

  "LISP EID Block Management Guidelines", Luigi Iannone, Roger Jorgensen,
  David Conrad, 2013-10-21, <draft-iannone-lisp-eid-block-mgmnt-03.txt>

      This document proposes an allocation framework for the management of
      the LISP EID address prefix (requested in [I-D.ietf-lisp-eid-block]).
      The framework described relies on hierarchical distribution of the
      address space with sub-prefixes allocated on a temporary basis to
      requesting organizations.

  "RADIUS Extensions for Key Management in WLAN network", Li Xue, Bo Gao,
  2013-07-11, <draft-xue-radext-key-management-01.txt>

      It is a general case in operators networks that Authenticator is
      deployed on Service Gateway (SGW) to avoid overload on the Access
      Controller (AC).  In this scenario, the encryption/decryption node
      can't obtain Pairwise Master Key (PMK) information during Extensible
      Authentication Protocol (EAP) procedure, it is not sufficent to
      achieve traffic encryption/decryption requirement in Wireless Local
      Area Network (WLAN) network.
      
      This document analyzes the requirement and issue for key management
      that has arisen so far during authentication process in WLAN network.
      Meanwhile, the control messages for key management are defined.

  "Make-Before-Break MPLS-TE LSP restoration and reoptimization procedure
  using Stateful PCE", Yosuke Tanaka, Yuji Kamite, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-tanaka-pce-stateful-pce-mbb-02.txt>

      Stateful PCE (Path Computation Element) and its corresponding
      protocol extensions provide a mechanism that enables PCE to do
      stateful control of MPLS Traffic Engineering Label Switched Paths (TE
      LSP).  Stateful PCE supports manipulating the existing LSP's state
      and attributes (e.g., bandwidth and route) and also creating totally
      new LSPs in the network.
      
      In the current MPLS TE network using RSVP-TE, LSPs are often
      controlled by "make-before-break (M-B-B)" signaling by headend for
      the purpose of LSP restoration and reoptimization.  In most cases, it
      is an essential operation to reroute LSP traffic without any data
      disruption.
      
      This document specifies the procedure of applying stateful PCE's
      control to make-before-break RSVP-TE signaling.  In this document,
      two types of restoration/reoptimization procedures are defined,
      implicit mode and explicit mode.  This document also specifies the
      usage and handling of stateful PCEP (PCE Communication Protocol)
      messages, expected behavior of PCC as RSVP-TE headend and several
      extensions of additional PCEP objects.

  "Advertising MPLS labels in IGPs", Hannes Gredler, Shane Amante, Tom
  Scholl, Luay Jalil, 2013-05-15,
  <draft-gredler-rtgwg-igp-label-advertisement-05.txt>

      Historically MPLS label distribution was driven by session oriented
      protocols.  In order to obtain a particular routers label binding for
      a given destination FEC one needs to have first an established
      session with that node.
      
      This document describes a mechanism to distribute FEC/label mappings
      through flooding protocols.  Flooding protocols publish their objects
      for an unknown set of receivers, therefore one can efficiently scale
      label distribution for use cases where the receiver of label
      information is not directly connected.
      
      Application of this technique are found in the field of backup
      (Bypass, R-LFA) routing, Label switched path stitching, egress
      protection, explicit routing and egress ASBR link selection.

  "Simple VPN solution using Multi-point Security Association", Arifumi
  Yamaya, Ken Ueki, Tomoki Murai, Takafumi Ohya, Tomohiro Yamagata,
  2013-07-30, <draft-yamaya-ipsecme-mpsa-02.txt>

      This document describes the over-lay network solution by utilizing
      dynamically established IPsec multi-point Security Association (SA)
      without individual connection.
      
      Multi-point SA technology provides the simplified mechanism of the
      Auto Discovery and Configuration function.  This is applicable for
      any IPsec tunnels such as IPv4 over IPv4, IPv4 over IPv6, IPv6 over
      IPv4 and IPv6 over IPv6.

  "ALTO for Querying LMAP Results", Jan Seedorf, David Goergen, R State,
  Vijay Gurbani, Enrico Marocco, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-seedorf-lmap-alto-02.txt>

      In the context of Large-Scale Measurement of Broadband Performance
      (LMAP), measurement results are currently made available to the
      public either at the finest granularity level (e.g. as a list of
      results of all individual tests), or in a very high level human-
      readable format (e.g. as PDF reports).  This document argues that
      there is a need for an intermediate way to provide access to large-
      scale network measurement results, flexible enough to enable querying
      of specific and possibly aggregated data.  The Application-Layer
      Traffic Optimization (ALTO) Protocol, defined with the goal to
      provide applications with network information, seems a good candidate
      to fulfill such a role.  Finally, we describe our methodology for
      analyzing the United States Federal Communication Commission's (FCC)
      Measuring Broadband America (MBA) dataset to derive required topology
      and cost maps suitable for consumption by an ALTO server.

  "A Google Congestion Control Algorithm for Real-Time Communication",
  Henrik Lundin, Stefan Holmer, Harald Alvestrand, 2013-08-19,
  <draft-alvestrand-rmcat-congestion-01.txt>

      This document describes two methods of congestion control when using
      real-time communications on the World Wide Web (RTCWEB); one sender-
      based and one receiver-based.
      
      It is published as an input document to the RMCAT working group on
      congestion control for media streams.  The mailing list of that WG is
      rmcat@ietf.org.

  "IEEE 802.21 Overview", Juan-Carlos Ziga, Pierrick Seite, 2013-08-14,
  <draft-zuniga-mif-802-21-overview-01.txt>

      Some of the messages defined by a potential MIF API may rely on
      functionalties provided by lower layers.  The IEEE 802.21
      specification defines an abstraction of lower layer functions that
      can be useful for the MIF API.  This document provides an overview of
      the 802.21 specification and enumerates a subset of functions that
      can be used in the context of the MIF API to interact with lower
      layers.

  "Opportunistic Linked-Increases Congestion Control Algorithm for MPTCP",
  Ramin Khalili, Nicolas Gast, Miroslav Popovic, Jean-Yves Le Boudec,
  2013-10-21, <draft-khalili-mptcp-congestion-control-02.txt,.pdf>

      This document describes the mechanism of OLIA, the "Opportunistic
      Linked Increases Algorithm". OLIA is a congestion control algorithm
      for MPTCP. The current congestion control algorithm of MPTCP, LIA
      [4], forces a tradeoff between optimal congestion balancing and
      responsiveness. OLIA's design departs from this tradeoff and provide
      these properties simultaneously. Hence, it solves the identified
      performance problems with LIA while retaining non-flappiness and
      responsiveness behavior of LIA, as shown by different studies [5, 6,
      7, 8]. OLIA is now part of the UCLouvain's MPTCP implementation [9].

  "A New Data Chunk for Stream Control Transmission Protocol", Randall
  Stewart, Michael Tuexen, Salvatore Loreto, Robin Seggelmann, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-stewart-tsvwg-sctp-ndata-03.txt>

      The Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) is a message oriented
      transport protocol supporting arbitrary large user messages.
      However, the sender can not interleave different user messages which
      which causes head of line blocking at the sender side.  To overcome
      this limitation, this document adds a new data chunk to SCTP.

  "Diameter Congestion and Filter Attributes", Brent Hirschman, Lyle
  Bertz, 2013-08-13, <draft-bertz-dime-congestion-flow-attributes-01.txt>

      This document defines optional ECN and filter related attributes that
      can be used for improved traffic identification, support of ECN and
      minimized filter administration within Diameter.
      
      RFC 5777 defines a Filter-Rule AVP that accommodates extensions for
      classification, conditions and actions. It does not support traffic
      identification for packets using Explicit Congestion Notification as
      defined in RFC 3168 and does not provide specific actions when the
      flow(s) described by the Filter-Rule are congested.
      
      A Filter-Rule can describe multiple flows but not the exact number of
      flows. Flow count and other associated data (e.g. packets) is not
      captured in Accounting applications, leaving administrators without
      useful information regarding the effectiveness or understanding of
      the filter definition.
      
      These optional attributes are forward and backwards compatible with
      RFC 5777.

  "PIM Extensions for Protection Using Maximally Redundant Trees", Robert
  Kebler, Alia Atlas, Naiming Shen, Yiqun Cai, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-kebler-pim-mrt-protection-01.txt>

      This document specifies Protocol Independent Multicast (PIM)
      procedures for Failure Protection, as specified in the MRT Multicast
      architecture [I-D.atlas-rtwg-mrt-mc-arch].  This can be accomplished
      with Global Repair (aka Live-Live) or with Local Repair (aka Fast Re-
      route).  Maximally Redundant Trees (MRTs) provide the capability to
      PIM to provide alternate paths around any given failure.

  "Securing the IP-based Internet of Things with DTLS", Sye Keoh, Sandeep
  Kumar, Oscar Garcia-Morchon, 2013-08-27,
  <draft-keoh-lwig-dtls-iot-02.txt>

      The IP-based Internet of Things (IoT) refers to the pervasive
      interaction of smart devices and people enabling new applications by
      means of IP protocols. Traditional IP protocols will be further
      complemented by 6LoWPAN and CoAP to make the IoT feasible on small
      devices. Security and privacy are a must for such an environment. Due
      to mobility, limited bandwidth, resource constraints, and new
      communication topologies, existing security solutions need to be
      adapted. We propose a security architecture for the IoT in order to
      provide network access control to smart devices, the management of
      keys and securing unicast/multicast communication. Devices are
      authenticated and granted network access by means of a pre-shared key
      (PSK) based security handshake protocol. The solution is based on
      Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS). Through the established
      secure channels, keying materials, operational and security
      parameters are distributed, enabling devices to derive session keys
      and group keys. The solution relies on the DTLS Record Layer for the
      protection of unicast and multicast data flows. We have prototyped
      and evaluated the security architecture. The DTLS architecture allows
      for easier interaction and interoperability with the Internet due to
      the extensive use of TLS. However, it exhibits performance issues
      constraining its deployment in some network topologies and hence
      would require further optimizations.

  "CoAP Communication with Alternative Transports", Bilhanan Silverajan,
  Teemu Savolainen, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-silverajan-core-coap-alternative-transports-03.txt>

      CoAP is being standardised as an application level REST-based
      protocol.  A single CoAP message is typically encapsulated and
      transmitted using UDP.  This draft examines the requirements and
      possible solutions for conveying CoAP packets to end points over
      alternative transports to UDP.  UDP remains the optimal solution for
      CoAP use in IP-based constrained environments and nodes.  However the
      need for M2M communication using non-IP networks, improved transport
      level end-to-end reliability and security, NAT and firewall traversal
      issues, and mechanisms possibly incurring a lower overhead to CoAP/
      HTTP translation gateways provide compelling motivation for
      understanding how CoAP can operate in various other environments.

  "UNI Extensions for Diversity and Latency Support", Don Fedyk, Dieter
  Beller, Lieven Levrau, Daniele Ceccarelli, Fatai Zhang, Yuji Tochio,
  Xihua Fu, 2013-10-21, <draft-fedyk-ccamp-uni-extensions-03.txt>

      This document builds on the GMPLS overlay model [RFC4208] and defines
      extensions to the GMPLS User-Network Interface (UNI) to support route
      diversity within the core network for sets of LSPs initiated by edge
      nodes. A particular example where route diversity within the core
      network is desired, are dual-homed edge nodes. The document also
      defines GMPLS UNI extensions to deal with latency requirements for
      edge node initiated LSPs.
      
      This document uses a VPN model that is based on the same premise as
      L1VPN framework [RFC4847] but may also be applied to other
      technologies.  The extensions are applicable both to VPN and non VPN
      environments. These extensions move the UNI from basic connectivity
      to enhanced mode connectivity by including additional constraints
      while minimizing the exchange of CE to PE information. These
      extensions are applicable to the overlay extension service model.
      Route Diversity for customer LSPs are a common requirement applicable
      to L1VPNs. The UNI mechanisms described in this document are L1VPN
      compatible and can be applied to achieve diversity for sets of
      customer LSPs.
      
      The UNI extensions in support of latency constraints can also be
      applied to the extended overlay service model in order for the
      customer LSPs to meet certain latency requirements.

  "ICN Management Considerations", Daniel Corujo, Kostas Pentikousis, Ivan
  Vidal, Stefan Lederer, Spiros Spirou, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-corujo-icn-mgmt-02.txt>

      Motivated by the need to find and evaluate better ways for reaching
      on-line content in upcoming Future Internet environments, ICN has
      been increasingly deployed in an broad range of research and
      experimental actions.  Some deployments even go as far as subjecting
      ICN to new scenarios beyond content-reaching, exposing the
      flexibility of ICN core primitives in supporting such mechanisms.  In
      this sense, besides analyzing and discussing the role of network
      management procedures in ICN environments, this document also
      analyzes possibilities on how intrinsic core ICN mechanisms can be
      reutilized for network management.  We consider that the availability
      of management mechanisms for ICN will foster their deployment and, as
      such, should be tackled still in the design and experimentation
      phases.  Perhaps ICN can adapt successful mechanisms from the host-
      centric paradigm, or new network management schemes can be designed.
      Perhaps even both.  This document centralizes that discussion,
      drawing the attention of the ICNRG community to this underdeveloped
      area of research in ICN.

  "SCIM Profile For Enhancing Just-In-Time Provisioning", Mark Wahl,
  2013-10-18, <draft-wahl-scim-jit-profile-01.txt>

      This document specifies a profile of the System for Cross-Domain
      Identity Management Protocol (SCIM). Servers which implement
      protocols such as SAML or OpenID Connect receive user identities
      through those protocols and often cache them, and this profile of
      SCIM defines how an identity provider can notify a SCIM server of
      changes to user accounts.

  "Problem Statement and Architecture for Information Exchange Between
  Interconnected Traffic Engineered Networks", Adrian Farrel, John Drake,
  Nabil Bitar, George Swallow, Daniele Ceccarelli, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-farrel-interconnected-te-info-exchange-02.txt>

      In Traffic Engineered (TE) systems, it is sometimes desirable to
      establish an end-to-end TE path with a set of constraints (such as
      bandwidth) across one or more network from a source to a destination.
      TE information is the data relating to nodes and TE links that is
      used in the process of selecting a TE path.  The availability of TE
      information is usually limited to within a network (such as an IGP
      area) often referred to as a domain.
      
      In order to determine the potential to establish a TE path through a
      series of connected networks, it is necessary to have available a
      certain amount of TE information about each network.  This need not
      be the full set of TE information available within each network, but
      does need to express the potential of providing TE connectivity. This
      subset of TE information is called TE reachability information.
      
      This document sets out the problem statement and architecture for the
      exchange of TE information between interconnected TE networks in
      support of end-to-end TE path establishment.  For reasons that are
      explained in the document, this work is limited to simple TE
      constraints and information that determine TE reachability.

  "A framework for large-scale measurements", Philip Eardley, Trevor
  Burbridge, Al Morton, 2013-07-15, <draft-eardley-lmap-framework-02.txt>

      Measuring broadband service on a large scale requires standardisation
      of the logical architecture and a description of the key protocols
      that coordinate interactions between the components.  The document
      presents an overall framework for large-scale measurements and
      discusses which elements could be standardised in the IETF.  It is
      intended to assist the discussions about the potential creation of
      the LMAP working group.

  "Entropy label for seamless MPLS", Ravi Singh, Yimin Shen, John Drake,
  2013-10-21, <draft-ravisingh-mpls-el-for-seamless-mpls-01.txt>

      This document describes how entropy labels can be used for load
      balancing in a seamless MPLS architecture. The definition of the
      control plane and data plane behavior at LSP stitching points; and at
      the ingress of an LSP in a hierarchy of LSPs, as described in this
      document, brings the benefits of entropy labels to seamless MPLS as
      MPLS deployments proliferate in the access and aggregation networks.
      
      This document updates RFC 6790.

  "IPv6 Prefix Properties", Jouni Korhonen, Basavaraj Patil, Sri
  Gundavelli, Pierrick Seite, Dapeng Liu, 2013-07-09,
  <draft-korhonen-6man-prefix-properties-02.txt>

      This specification defines an extension to the IPv6 Neighbor
      Discovery protocol and the stateless address autoconfiguration
      procedure.  A new Prefix Information Option with meta data is defined
      that describe the properties and other prefix class meta data
      associated with the prefix.  The stateless address autoconfiguration
      procedure and end hosts can make use of the additional properties and
      class information when selecting prefixes for a particular uses and
      use cases.  This specification updates RFC4861 and also updates
      RFC4862.

  "3GPP IMS Option for IKEv2", Aeneas Noble, Sri Gundavelli, Jouni
  Korhonen, Florin Baboescu, 2013-08-21,
  <draft-gundavelli-ipsecme-3gpp-ims-options-01.txt>

      This document defines two new configuration attributes for Internet
      Key Exchange Protocol version 2 (IKEv2).  These attributes can be
      used for carrying the IPv4 and IPv6 address of the Proxy-Call Control
      and Service function (P-CSCF).  This is one of the few methods that
      an IPsec client can obtain the IP address of the P-CSCF function
      located in the home network.

  "IPv6 Multihoming with Source Address Dependent Routing (SADR)", Ole
  Troan, Lorenzo Colitti, 2013-09-04, <draft-troan-homenet-sadr-01.txt>

      A multihomed network using provider aggregatable addresses must send
      the packet out the right path to avoid violating the provider's
      ingress filtering.  This memo suggests a mechanism called Source
      Address Dependent Routing to solve that problem.

  "Automating DNSSEC delegation trust maintenance", Warren Kumari, Olafur
  Gudmundsson, George Barwood, 2013-10-05,
  <draft-kumari-ogud-dnsop-cds-05.txt>

      This document describes a method to allow DNS operators to more
      easily update DNSSEC Key Signing Keys using DNS as communication
      channel.  This document does not address the initial configuration of
      trust anchors for a domain.  The technique described is aimed at
      delegations in which it is currently hard to move information from
      the child to parent.

  "Virtual Machine Mobility Protocol Using Distributed Proxy Mobile IPv6",
  Behcet Sarikaya, Linda Dunbar, 2013-07-08,
  <draft-sarikaya-nvo3-vmm-dmm-pmip-01.txt>

      This document specifies a new IP level protocol for seamless virtual
      machine mobility in data centers.  Source Hypervisor registers the
      newly created virtual machine with the centrally available management
      node.  When the virtual machine moves to the destination Hypervisor,
      the destination Hypervisor updates the virtual machine record in the
      management node.  Management node sends registration message to all
      previous source Hypervisors in order to direct the ongoing traffic to
      the destination Hypervisor.  Cold and hot virtual machine mobility
      are achieved using dynamic domain name system update and host routes.
      Both intra data center and inter data center hot virtual machine
      mobility solutions are presented.

  "Protocol Independent Use Cases for an Interface to the Routing System",
  Russ White, Susan Hares, Alvaro Retana, 2013-08-27,
  <draft-white-i2rs-use-case-01.txt>

      Programmatic interfaces to provide control over individual forwarding
      devices in a network promise to reduce operational costs while
      improving scaling, control, and visibility into the operation of
      large scale networks.  To this end, several programmatic interfaces
      have been proposed.  OpenFlow, for instance, provides a mechanism to
      replace the dynamic control plane processes on individual forwarding
      devices throughout a network with off box processes that interact
      with the forwarding tables on each device.  Another example is
      NETCONF, which provides a fast and flexible mechanism to interact
      with device configuration and policy.
      
      There is, however, no proposal which provides an interface to all
      aspects of the routing system as a system.  Such a system would not
      interact with the forwarding system on individual devices, but rather
      with the control plane processes already used to discover the best
      path to any given destination through the network, as well as
      interact with the routing information base (RIB), which feeds the
      forwarding table the information needed to actually switch traffic at
      a local level.
      
      This document describes a set of use cases such a system could
      fulfill.  It is designed to provide underlying support for the
      framework, policy, and other drafts describing the Interface to the
      Routing System (I2RS).

  "Two Dimensional-IP Routing Protocol in Home Networks", Mingwei Xu, Shu
  Yang, Jianping Wu, Dan Wang, 2013-08-22,
  <draft-xu-homenet-twod-ip-routing-01.txt>

      Home network design faces many challenges currently.  Two of them are
      multi-homing and policy enforcement.  Different with other types of
      networks, home network operators are usually not professional
      technicians or geeks.  The problems we face are fundamentally related
      with the poor semantics provided by current destination-based routing
      protocol.
      
      TwoD-IP routing protocol is a link state routing protocol that makes
      routing decisions based on both destination and source addresses.
      This document describes the mechanism for supporting flexible multi-
      homing and policy routing across home networks.

  "A Framework for SDP Attributes when Multiplexing", Suhas Nandakumar,
  2013-10-20, <draft-nandakumar-mmusic-sdp-mux-attributes-05.txt,.pdf>

      The Session Description Protocol (SDP) provides mechanisms to
      describe attributes of multimedia sessions and of individual media
      streams (e.g., Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) sessions) within a
      multimedia session.  In the RTCWeb WG, there is a need to use a
      single 5-tuple for sending and receiving media associated with
      multiple media descriptions ("m=" lines).  Such a requirement has
      raised concerns over the semantic implications of the SDP attributes
      associated with the RTP Sessions multiplexed over a single transport
      layer flow.
      
      The scope of this specification is to provide a framework for
      analyzing the multiplexing characteristics of SDP attributes.  The
      specification also categorizes existing attributes based on the
      framework described herein.

  "IS-IS Topology-Transparent Zone", Huaimo Chen, Renwei Li, Gregory
  Cauchie, So Ning, Alvaro Retana, 2013-05-03,
  <draft-chen-isis-ttz-01.txt>

      This document presents a topology-transparent zone in a domain.  A
      topology-transparent zone comprises a group of routers and a number
      of circuits connecting these routers.  Any router outside of the zone
      is not aware of the zone.  The information about the circuits and
      routers inside the zone is not distributed to any router outside of
      the zone.  Any link state change such as a circuit down inside the
      zone is not seen by any router outside of the zone.

  "VXLAN DCI Using EVPN", Sami Boutros, Ali Sajassi, Samer Salam, Dennis
  Cai, Samir Thoria, John Drake, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-boutros-l2vpn-vxlan-evpn-02.txt>

      This document describes how Ethernet VPN (EVPN) technology can be
      used to interconnect VXLAN or NVGRE networks over an MPLS/IP network.
      This is to provide intra-subnet connectivity at Layer 2 and control-
      plane separation among the interconnected VXLAN or NVGRE networks.
      The scope of the learning of host MAC addresses in VXLAN or NVGRE
      network is limited to data plane learning in this document.

  "A Taxonomy of Grouping Semantics and Mechanisms for Real-Time Transport
  Protocol (RTP) Sources", Jonathan Lennox, Kevin Gross, Suhas Nandakumar,
  Gonzalo Salgueiro, BoB, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-lennox-raiarea-rtp-grouping-taxonomy-03.txt>

      The terminology about, and associations among, Real-Time Transport
      Protocol (RTP) sources can be complex and somewhat opaque.  This
      document describes a number of existing and proposed relationships
      among RTP sources, and attempts to define common terminology for
      discussing protocol entities and their relationships.

  "Internet Media Type application/sdpfrag", Emil Ivov, Adam Roach,
  2013-10-15, <draft-ivov-dispatch-sdpfrag-03.txt>

      This document registers the application/sdpfrag Multipurpose Internet
      Mail Extensions (MIME) media type.  This type is similar to
      application/sdp, but allows certain subsets of well formed session
      descriptions, as per the Session Description Protocol (SDP), to be
      represented instead of requiring a complete SDP session description.
      The "a=candidate" lines that are incrementally exchanged between
      Trickle ICE agents are one example usage of the application/sdpfrag.

  "IP Inter-Subnet Forwarding in EVPN", Ali Sajassi, Samer Salam, Yakov
  Rekhter, John Drake, Lucy Yong, Linda Dunbar, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-sajassi-l2vpn-evpn-inter-subnet-forwarding-02.txt>

      EVPN provides an extensible and flexible multi-homing VPN solution
      for intra-subnet connectivity among hosts/VMs over an MPLS/IP
      network. However, there are scenarios in which inter-subnet
      forwarding among hosts/VMs across different IP subnets is required,
      while maintaining the multi-homing capabilities of EVPN. This
      document describes an IRB solution based on EVPN to address such
      requirements.

  "BGP/MPLS IP VPN Virtual PE", Luyuan Fang, David Ward, Rex Fernando,
  Maria Napierala, Nabil Bitar, Dhananjaya Rao, Bruno Rijsman, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-fang-l3vpn-virtual-pe-04.txt>

      This document describes the architecture solutions for BGP/MPLS IP
      Virtual Private Networks (VPNs) with virtual Provider Edge (vPE)
      routers. It provides a functional description of the vPE control,
      forwarding, and management. The proposed vPE solutions support both
      the Software Defined Networks (SDN) approach which allows physical
      decoupling of the control and the forwarding, and the traditional
      distributed routing approach. A vPE can reside in any network or
      compute devices, such as a server as co-resident with the application
      virtual machines (VMs), or a Top-of-Rack (ToR) switch in a Data
      Center (DC) network.

  "Distributed Mobility Management Framework", Anthony Chan, Pierrick
  Seite, Kostas Pentikousis, Ashutosh Dutta, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-chan-dmm-framework-03.txt,.pdf>

      This document introduces a framework for mobility management
      protocols in terms of their key, abstract logical functions.  We
      explain how the framework is capable of presenting a unified view,
      reducing the clutter that prevents a casual reader from understanding
      the commonalities between different approaches in mobility
      management.  A first order application of this framework is to enable
      us to examine previously standardized mobility management protocols,
      such as MIPv6 and PMIPv6 (as well as several of their extensions),
      and describe their core functionality in terms of different
      configurations of the logical functions defined by the framework.

  "BGP/MPLS IP VPN Virtual CE", Luyuan Fang, John Evans, David Ward, Rex
  Fernando, John Mullooly, So Ning, Nabil Bitar, Maria Napierala,
  2013-10-20, <draft-fang-l3vpn-virtual-ce-02.txt>

      This document describes the architecture and solutions of using
      virtual Customer Edge (vCE) of BGP IP MPLS VPN. The solution is aimed
      at providing efficient service delivery capability through CE
      virtualization, and is especially beneficial in virtual Private Cloud
      (vPC) environments for extending BGP/MPLS IP VPN into tenant virtual
      Data Center containers.

  "A Network Virtualization Overlay Solution using EVPN", Ali Sajassi,
  John Drake, Nabil Bitar, Aldrin Isaac, Jim Uttaro, Wim Henderickx,
  2013-10-21, <draft-sd-l2vpn-evpn-overlay-02.txt>

      This document describes how EVPN can be used as an NVO solution and
      explores the various tunnel encapsulation options over IP  and their
      impact on the EVPN control-plane and procedures. In particular, the
      following encapsulation options are analyzed: MPLS over GRE, VXLAN,
      and NVGRE.

  "BGP/MPLS IP VPN Data Center Interconnect", Luyuan Fang, Rex Fernando,
  Dhananjaya Rao, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-fang-l3vpn-data-center-interconnect-02.txt>

      This document discusses two categories of inter-connections of
      BGP/MPLS IP VPN [RFC4364] and Data Center (DC) overlay networks. In
      the first category, DC overlay virtual network is built with BGP/MPLS
      IP VPN (IP VPN) technologies, the inter-connection of IP VPN in the
      DC to IP VPN in the WAN enables end-to-end IP VPN connectivity. In
      the second category, DC overlay network uses non IP VPN overlay
      technologies, the inter-connection of any overlay virtual network in
      the DC to IP VPN in the WAN provides end user connectivity through
      stitching of different overlay technologies.

  "Virtual Topologies for Service Chaining in BGP/IP MPLS VPNs", Rex
  Fernando, Dhananjaya Rao, Luyuan Fang, Maria Napierala, So Ning, Adrian
  Farrel, 2013-10-21, <draft-rfernando-l3vpn-service-chaining-03.txt>

      This document presents techniques built upon BGP/IP MPLS VPN control
      plane mechanisms to construct virtual topologies for service
      chaining. These virtual service topologies interconnect network zones
      and constrain the flow of traffic between these zones via a sequence
      of service nodes so that service functions can be applied to the
      traffic.
      
      This document also describes approaches enabled by both the routing
      control plane and by network orchestration to realize these virtual
      service topologies.

  "RSVP-TE Signaling Extension for Links with Variable Discrete
  Bandwidth", Hao Long, Min Ye, Greg Mirsky, Alessandro D'Alessandro,
  2013-10-21, <draft-long-ccamp-rsvp-te-bandwidth-availability-02.txt>

      Packet switching network may contain links with variable bandwidth,
      e.g., copper, radio, etc. The bandwidth of such link is sensitive to
      external environment. Availability is typically used for describing
      the link during network planning. This document describes an
      extension for RSVP-TE signaling for setting up a label switching
      path (LSP) in a Packet Switched Network (PSN) network which contains
      links with discretely variable bandwidth by introducing an optional
      availability field in RSVP-TE signaling.

  "PID: A Generic Naming Schema for Information-centric Network", Xinwen
  Zhang, Ravi Ravindran, Haiyong Xie, Guoqiang Wang, 2013-08-20,
  <draft-zhang-icnrg-pid-naming-scheme-03.txt,.pdf>

      In Information-centric network (ICN), everything is an identifiable
      object or entity with a name, such as a named data chunk, a device,
      or a service end.  Different from host-centric connectivity, ICN
      connects named entities using name-based routing and forwarding.  At
      the same time, network entities, end devices, and applications have
      variant demands to verify the integrity and authenticity of these
      entities through names.  This document proposes a generic naming
      schema called PID, which supports trust provenance, content lookup,
      routing, and inter-domain resolution for ICN.  With PID schema, a
      name consists of three components: principal(s), identifier(s), and
      domain(s).  In this draft, we only illustrate the principle and
      concept of PID and the functional role of each component, and leave
      encoding approaches as implementation options.

  "Syslog Format for NAT Logging", Zhonghua Chen, Cathy Zhou, Tina Tsou,
  Tom Taylor, 2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-behave-syslog-nat-logging-05.txt>

      With the wide deployment of Carrier Grade NAT (CGN) devices, the
      logging of NAT-related events has become very important for various
      operational purposes.  The logs may be required for troubleshooting,
      to identify a host that was used to launch malicious attacks, and/or
      for accounting purposes.  This document identifies the events that
      need to be logged and the parameters that are required in the logs
      depending on the context in which the NAT is being used.  It goes on
      to standardize formats for reporting these events and parameters
      using SYSLOG (RFC 5424).  A companion document specifies formats for
      reporting the same events and parameters using IPFIX (RFC 5101).
      Applicability statements are provided in this document and its
      companion to guide operators and implementors in their choice of
      which technology to use for logging.

  "Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol", Donnie, Donald Slice,
  James Ng, Steven Moore, Russ White, 2013-10-07,
  <draft-savage-eigrp-01.txt>

      This document describes the protocol design and architecture for
      Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol (EIGRP). EIGRP is a routing
      protocol based on Distance Vector technology. The specific algorithm
      used is called DUAL, a Diffusing UPDATE Algorithm[4]. The algorithm and
      procedures were researched, developed, and simulated by SRI
      International.

  "Multicast UDP Usage Guidelines for Application Designers", Greg
  Shepherd, 2013-06-12, <draft-shepherd-multicast-udp-guidelines-01.txt>

      The multi-recipient nature of Multicast prevents the use of any pont-
      to-point connection-oriented transport, therefore restricts all
      Multicast data to be sent over the User Datagram Protocol (UDP).  UDP
      provides a minimal message-passing transport that has no inherent
      congestion control mechanisms.  Because congestion control is
      critical to the stable operation of the Internet, applications and
      upper-layer protocols that choose to use Multicast UDP as an Internet
      service must employ mechanisms to prevent congestion collapse and to
      establish some degree of fairness with concurrent traffic.  This
      document provides guidelines on the use of UDP for the designers of
      multicast applications and higher-level protocols.

  "Multi-Upstream Interfaces IGMP/MLD Proxy", Hong-Ke Zhang, Thomas
  Schmidt, 2013-07-13, <draft-zhang-pim-muiimp-01.txt>

      In this document, followed by the idea mentioned in [1] and
      subsequently  updated  in  [2],  an  IGMP/MLD  proxy  with  multiple
      upstream interfaces called MUIIMP is proposed and analyzed. The
      MUIIMP inherits the basic rule of the IGMP/MLD proxy but extends
      with multiple upstream interfaces. To avoid data redundancy, each
      upstream interface of an MUIIMP device MUST NOT send or subscribe to
      the same data simultaneously.

  "Attribute-Value Pairs For Provisioning Customer Equipment Supporting
  IPv4-Over-IPv6 Transitional Solutions", Cathy Zhou, Tom Taylor, Qiong,
  Mohamed Boucadair, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-zhou-dime-4over6-provisioning-02.txt>

      During the transition from IPv4 to IPv6, customer equipment may have
      to support one of the various transition methods that have been or
      are currently being defined for carrying IPv4 packets over IPv6.
      Work is currently in progress to enumerate the information that needs
      to be provisioned on a customer edge router to support a list of
      transition techniques based on tunneling IPv4 in IPv6, with a view to
      defining reusable components for a reasonable transition path between
      these techniques.  To the extent that the provisioning is done
      dynamically, AAA support is needed to provide the information to the
      network server responsible for passing the information to the
      customer equipment.  This document specifies Diameter attribute-value
      pairs to be used for that purpose.

  "Benchmarking Neighbor Discovery Problems", William Cerveny, 2013-10-17,
  <draft-cerveny-bmwg-ipv6-nd-02.txt>

      This document is a benchmarking instantiation of RFC 6583:
      "Operational Neighbor Discovery Problems" [RFC6583].  It describes a
      general testing procedure and measurements that can be performed to
      evaluate how the problems described in RFC 6583 may impact the
      functionality or performance of intermediate nodes.

  "Distributed Mobility Management: Service Flows Distribution and Handoff
  Technique based on MIPv6", Liu Min, Yuwei Wang, 2013-09-27,
  <draft-liu-dmm-flows-distribution-and-handoff-01.txt>

      This document has a normative description of the service flow
      management technology based on mobile IPv6 (MIPv6). It makes the
      upgrade of management model in MIPv6 from the entire node granularity
      to the single service flow granularity. It proposes a distributed
      mobility management solution, DMIPv6, which is compatible with MIPv6
      and takes different mobility management strategies according to the
      Correspondent Node's position, network conditions and service
      requirements of different service flows so as to achieve the service
      flow handoff and transmission path control. The standard also
      provides route optimization mechanism between the Mobile Node and the
      ordinary Correspondent Node that doesn't support mobile IPv6.

  "Autonomous Extensible Internet with Network Address Translation(AEIP
  NAT)", Diao Yongping, Ming Liao, Diao Yuping, 2013-09-11,
  <draft-diao-aeip-nat-01.txt>

      The two key issues of today's Internet are autonomy and
      extensibility. Autonomous Internet(AIP) technology can provide
      extensible internet architecture, own independent root DNS servers
      and self management internet network; Furthermore, based on the
      Autonomous Internet, here provides a way with extensible address
      capacity to solve IP address deficiency and realize
      Autonomous Extensible Internet(AEIP). It mainly adopts local
      network address based on per Autonomous IP network and uses
      bilateral dynamic NAT with global network address between
      Autonomous IP networks to solve IP address deficient problem.
      This AEIP with Network Address Translation(AEIP NAT) can realize
      autonomy and extensibility with minimal cost.

  "Delay Tolerant Networking Email Convergence Layer Protocol", Bjoern
  Gernert, Sebastian Schildt, 2013-04-23,
  <draft-gernert-dtnrg-mailcl-01.txt>

      This document describes the protocol for the Email-based Convergence
      (MCL) Layer for Delay Tolerant Networking (DTN).

  "RTCWEB Considerations for NATs, Firewalls and HTTP proxies", Thomas
  Stach, Andrew Hutton, Justin Uberti, 2013-09-20,
  <draft-hutton-rtcweb-nat-firewall-considerations-02.txt>

      This document describes mechanism to enable media stream
      establishment for Real-Time Communication in WEB-browsers (WebRTC) in
      the presence of network address translators, firewalls and HTTP
      proxies.  HTTP proxy and firewall deployed in many private network
      domains introduce obstacles to the successful establishment of media
      stream via WebRTC.  This document examines some of these deployment
      scenarios and develops requirements on the web browsers designed to
      provide the best possible chance of media connectivity between WebRTC
      peers.

  "Terminology in IPv6 over Timeslotted Channel Hopping", Maria
  Palattella, Pascal Thubert, Thomas Watteyne, Qin Wang, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-palattella-6tsch-terminology-01.txt>

      6TSCH proposes an architecture for an IPv6 multilink subnet that is
      composed of a high speed powered backbone and a number of
      IEEE802.15.4e TSCH wireless networks attached and synchronized by
      backbone routers.  This document extends existing terminology
      documents available for Low-power and Lossy Networks to provide
      additional terminology elements.

  "I2RS overlay use case", fangwei hu, Bhumip Khasnabish, Chunming Wu,
  2013-08-06, <draft-hu-i2rs-overlay-use-case-02.txt>

      This document proposes an overlay network use case.  The forwarding
      routers network is an overlay structure.  There are two kinds of
      forwarding routers: Edge Router(ER) and Core Routers(CR).  Edge
      Router encapsulates format data based on the tunnel type, which are
      established among Edge Routers.  Core Router would be very simple and
      cheap.  It focus on the encapsulation data forwarding.  In order to
      reduce the equipment cost of Edge Routers, the network virtualization
      is provided in this document.

  "Augmented Password-Authenticated Key Exchange for Transport Layer
  Security (TLS)", SeongHan Shin, Kazukuni Kobara, 2013-09-04,
  <draft-shin-tls-augpake-01.txt>

      This document describes an efficient augmented password-authenticated
      key exchange (AugPAKE) protocol where a user remembers a low-entropy
      password and its verifier is registered in the intended server.  In
      general, the user password is chosen from a small set of dictionary
      whose space is within the off-line dictionary attacks.  The AugPAKE
      protocol described here is secure against passive attacks, active
      attacks and off-line dictionary attacks (on the obtained messages
      with passive/active attacks), and also provides resistance to server
      compromise (in the context of augmented PAKE security).  Based on the
      AugPAKE protocol, this document also specifies a new password-only
      authentication handshake for Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol.

  "mLDP extensions for integrating EVPN and multicast", David Allan, Jeff
  Tantsura, 2013-07-15, <draft-allan-l2vpn-mldp-evpn-01.txt>

      This document describes how mLDP FECs can be encoded to support both
      service specific and shared multicast trees and describes the
      associated procedures for EVPN PEs. Thus, mLDP can implement
      multicast for EVPN.

  "Mark and Signed Mark Objects Mapping", Gustavo Lozano, 2013-09-27,
  <draft-lozano-tmch-smd-03.txt>

      This document describes the format of a mark and a digitally signed
      mark, referred to as a signed mark and the Signed Mark Data (SMD)
      file as defined by the ICANN Trademark Clearinghouse.

  "6tus Layer Specification", Qin Wang, Xavier Vilajosana, Thomas
  Watteyne, 2013-05-23, <draft-wang-6tsch-6tus-01.txt>

      The recently published [IEEE802154e] standard formalizes the concept
      of link-layer resources in LLNs.  Nodes are synchronized and follow a
      schedule.  A time slot in that schedule corresponds to an atomic
      link-layer resource, and can be allocated to any pair of neighbors in
      the network.  This allows the schedule to be built to tightly match
      each node's bandwidth, latency and energy constraints, while ensuring
      collision-free communication.  The [IEEE802154e] standard does not,
      however, present a mechanism to do so, as building and managing the
      schedule is out of the standard's scope.  Routing layers such as the
      IETF IPv6 Routing Protocol for LLNs (RPL) provide a mechanism to
      route multipoint-to-point traffic (from devices inside the LLN
      towards a central control point) and point-to-multipoint traffic
      (from the central control point to the devices inside the LLN).
      Network layer overlays cannot be optimized and adapted to take
      advantage of the cell-based topology created by the underlying TSCH
      MAC layer as a missing set of functionalities need to be defined.
      This document describes the 6tus layer and the main commands it
      provides to upper network layers such as RPL or GMPLS.  The set of
      functionalities includes feedback metrics from cell states so network
      layers can take routing decisions, TSCH configuration and control
      procedures, and the support for centralized and decentralized
      scheduling policies.

  "An Architecture for IPv6 over Timeslotted Channel Hopping", Pascal
  Thubert, Robert Assimiti, Thomas Watteyne, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-thubert-6tsch-architecture-02.txt>

      This document presents an architecture for an IPv6 multilink subnet
      that is composed of a high speed powered backbone and a number of
      IEEE802.15.4e TSCH wireless networks attached and synchronized by
      Backbone Routers.  Route Computation may be achieved in a centralized
      fashion by a Path Computation Element, in a distributed fashion using
      the Routing Protocol for Low Power and Lossy Networks, or in a mixed
      mode.  The Backbone Routers perform proxy Neighbor discovery
      operations over the backbone on behalf of the wireless device, so
      they can share a same subnet and appear to be connected to the same
      backbone as classical devices.

  "CDNi Control - Initialization and Bootstrapping", Taesang Choi, John
  Shinn, Jonggyu Sung, Jongmin Lee, Ja-Ryeong Koo, Yong Bang, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-choi-cdni-control-init-bootstrapping-02.txt>

      This document proposes a mechanism for a CDN to initiate the
      interconnection across CDNs and bootstrap the other CDNi interfaces.

  "pNFS Metadata Striping", Matt Benjamin, Casey Bodley, Adam Emerson,
  Pranoop Ersani, Peter Honeyman, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-mbenjamin-nfsv4-pnfs-metastripe-01.txt>

      This Internet-Draft describes a means to add metadata striping to
      pNFS.  The text of this draft is substantially based on prior drafts
      by Eisler, M., with some departures.  The current draft attempts to
      define a somewhat lighter-weight protocol, in particular, seeks to
      permit striping for "filehandle only" operations such as LOCK and
      OPEN + CLAIM_FH, without clients having to obtain metadata layouts on
      regular files.  We gratefully acknowledge the primary contributions
      of Mike Eisler, Pranoop Ersani, and others.
      
      Internet Draft Comments
      
      Comments regarding this draft are solicited.

  "LISP Based FlowMapping for Scaling NFV",  sbarkai@gmail.com, Dino
  Farinacci, David Meyer, Fabio Maino, Vina Ermagan, 2013-07-02,
  <draft-barkai-lisp-nfv-02.txt>

      This draft describes an RFC 6830 Locator ID Separation Protocol
      (LISP) based distributed flow-mapping-fabric for dynamic scaling of
      virtualized network functions (NFV).  Network functions such as
      subscriber-management, content-optimization, security and quality of
      service, are typically delivered using proprietary hardware
      appliances embedded into the network as turn-key service-nodes or
      service-blades within routers.  Next generation network functions are
      being implemented as pure software instances running on standard
      servers - unbundled virtualized components of capacity and
      functionality.  LISP-SDN based flow-mapping, dynamically assembles
      these components to whole solutions by steering the right traffic in
      the right sequence to the right virtual function instance.

  "TMCH functional specifications", Gustavo Lozano, 2013-10-04,
  <draft-lozano-tmch-func-spec-08.txt>

      This document describes the requirements, the architecture and the
      interfaces between the Trademark Clearing House (TMCH) and Domain
      Name Registries as well as between the TMCH and Domain Name
      Registrars for the provisioning and management of domain names during
      Sunrise and Trademark Claims Periods.

  "ISSU Benchmarking Methodology", Sarah Banks, Fer, Gery Czirjak, Ramdas
  Machat, 2013-10-07, <draft-banks-bmwg-issu-meth-02.txt>

      Modern forwarding devices attempt to minimize any control and data
      plane disruptions while performing planned software changes, by
      implementing a technique commonly known as an In Service Software
      Upgrade (ISSU).
      
      This document specifies a set of common methodologies and procedures
      designed to characterize the overall behavior of a Device Under Test
      (DUT) subject to an ISSU event.

  "Authentication-Results Registration for S/MIME signature verification",
  Alexey Melnikov, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-melnikov-authentication-results-smime-04.txt>

      RFC 7001 specifies the Authentication-Results header field for
      conveying results of message authentication checks.  This document
      defines a new authentication method to be used in the Authentication-
      Results header field for S/MIME related signature checks.

  "VPLS external Loop Protection Mechanism (VLPM)", Richard Boldy,
  2013-05-02, <draft-l2vpn-vlpm-02.txt>

      In reference and response to draft-boldy-l2vpn-vplsloop-req-01,
      this document describes a solution in the form of a protocol
      function named VPLS External Loop Protection Mechanism (VLPM).
      
      VLPM is a protocol for a service provider to deploy at the PE to
      detect layer-2 loops in any external layer-2 segments (customer LAN)
      where customer deployed loop prevention methods may have failed.
      
      After detection of such a loop it facilitates configurable actions
      to protect the rest of the VPLS Domain from being affected without
      the need for inter-operation with customer network protocols, other
      VPLS PEs or sites.

  "XML Schemas for Reverse DNS Management", Terry Manderson, 2013-03-19,
  <draft-manderson-rdns-xml-01.txt>

      This document defines an Extensible Markup Language (XML) Schema for
      Reverse DNS Management in a tightly controlled Representational State
      Transfer (REST) environment.  This document describes a schema that
      has been developed and deployed by ICANN in a "RESTful" based system
      since 2011 and is being used by the registries responsible for
      reverse DNS (rDNS) delegations underneath IN-ADDR.ARPA and IP6.ARPA
      through an X.509 certificate mediated HTTPS transaction.

  "IPFIX Information Elements for logging NAT Events", Senthil Sivakumar,
  Reinaldo Penno, 2013-08-12, <draft-ietf-behave-ipfix-nat-logging-01.txt>

      NAT devices are required to log events like creation and deletion of
      translations and information about the resources it is managing.  The
      logs are required in many cases to identify an attacker or a host
      that was used to launch malicious attacks and/or for various other
      purposes of accounting.  Since there is no standard way of logging
      this information, different NAT devices behave differently and hence
      it is difficult to expect a consistent behavior.  The lack of a
      consistent way makes it difficult to write the collector applications
      that would receive this data and process it to present useful
      information.  This document describes the information that is
      required to be logged by the NAT devices.

  "A SASL and GSS-API Mechanism for the BrowserID Authentication
  Protocol", Luke Howard, Nico Williams, 2013-10-06,
  <draft-howard-gss-browserid-06.txt>

      This document defines protocols, procedures and conventions for a
      Generic Security Service Application Program Interface (GSS-API)
      security mechanism based on the BrowserID authentication mechanism.
      Through the GS2 family of mechanisms defined in RFC 5801, these
      protocols also define how Simple Authentication and Security Layer
      (SASL, RFC 4422) applications may use BrowserID.

  "Software-Defined Networking: A Perspective From Within A Service
  Provider", Mohamed Boucadair, Christian Jacquenet, 2013-10-07,
  <draft-sin-sdnrg-sdn-approach-04.txt>

      Software-Defined Networking (SDN) has been one of the major buzz
      words of the networking industry for the past couple of years.  And
      yet, no clear definition of what SDN actually covers has been broadly
      admitted so far.  This document aims at contributing to the
      clarification of the SDN landscape by providing a perspective on
      requirements, issues and other considerations about SDN, as seen from
      within a service provider environment.
      
      It is not meant to endlessly discuss what SDN truly means, but rather
      to suggest a functional taxonomy of the techniques that can be used
      under a SDN umbrella and to elaborate on the various pending issues
      the combined activation of such techniques inevitably raises.  As
      such, a definition of SDN is only mentioned for the sake of
      clarification.

  "Mounting YANG-Defined Information from Remote Datastores", Alex Clemm,
  Jan Medved, Eric Voit, 2013-09-22, <draft-clemm-netmod-mount-01.txt>

      This document introduces a new capability that allows YANG datastores
      to reference and incorporate information from remote datastores.
      This is accomplished using a new YANG data model that allows to
      define and manage datastore mount points that reference data nodes in
      remote datastores.  The data model includes a set of YANG extensions
      for the purposes of declaring such mount points.

  "Architecture Discussion of I2RS", Dapeng Liu, Bhumip Khasnabish, Hui
  Deng, 2013-07-15, <draft-liu-i2rs-architecture-02.txt>

      This document discusses the high level architecture of I2RS.  This
      document also provides brief descriptions on the use of
      virtualization and its impact on constructing chained and grouped
      services.  We plan to include further details on virtualization,
      service chaining, and grouping in a future version of this draft.

  "A Summary of Various Mechanisms Deployed at L-Root for the
  Identification of Anycast Nodes", Joe Abley, 2013-10-15,
  <draft-jabley-dnsop-anycast-mapping-03.txt>

      Anycast is a deployment technique commonly employed for
      authoritative-only servers in the Domain Name System (DNS).  L-Root,
      one of the thirteen root servers, is deployed in this fashion.
      
      Various techniques have been used to map deployed anycast
      infrastructure externally, i.e. without reference to inside knowledge
      about where and how such infrastructure has been deployed.
      Motivations for performing such measurement exercises include
      operational troubleshooting and infrastructure risk assessment.  In
      the specific case of L-Root, the ability to measure and map anycast
      infrastructure using the techniques mentioned in this document is
      provided for reasons of operational transparency.
      
      This document describes all facilities deployed at L-Root to
      facilitate mapping of its infrastructure and serves as documentation
      for L-Root as a measurable service.

  "X.509v3 TLS Feature Extension", Phillip Hallam-Baker, 2013-04-24,
  <draft-hallambaker-tlsfeature-02.txt,.pdf>

      The purpose of the TLS Feature extension is to prevent downgrade
      attacks that are not otherwise prevented by the TLS protocol.  In
      particular, the TLS Feature extension may be used to mandate support
      for revocation checking features in the TLS protocol such as OCSP
      stapling.  Informing clients that an OCSP status response will always
      be stapled permits an immediate failure in the case that the response
      is not stapled.  This in turn prevents a denial of service attack
      that might otherwise be possible.

  "Carrier-Grade-NAT (CGN) Deployment Considerations.", Kaname Nishizuka,
  Daigo Natsume, 2013-09-27,
  <draft-nishizuka-cgn-deployment-considerations-01.txt>

      This document provides deployment considerations for Carrier-Grade-
      NAT (CGN).  Due to emerging new web technologies such as Websocket,
      SPDY and HTTP2.0, the trend of the Internet traffic has been
      changing.  The number of sessions of commonly-used applications were
      investigated to estimate the efficiency of IPv4 address sharing of
      CGN.  Based on the result of the average number of sessions of
      subscribers, the verification of CGN was conducted in the large scale
      network experiment environment with one million emulated subscribers.
      It revealed that CGN can be used in more centralized location of a
      provider's network and it arose many considerations.

  "Why Reactive Protocols are Ill-Suited for LLNs", Joydeep Tripathi, Jau,
  C. Chauvenet, JP Vasseur, 2013-07-06,
  <draft-tripathi-roll-reactive-applicability-01.txt>

      This document describes serious issues and shortcomings regarding the
      use of reactive routing protocols in low power and lossy networks
      (LLNs).  Routing requirements for various LLN deployments are
      discussed in order to judge how reactive routing may or may not
      adhere to the necessary criteria.

  "Profile Support for the Atom Syndication Format", Erik Wilde,
  2013-07-29, <draft-wilde-atom-profile-02.txt>

      The Atom syndication format is a generic XML format for representing
      collections.  Profiles are one way how Atom feeds can indicate that
      they support specific extensions.  To make this support visible on
      the media type level, this specification adds an optional "profile"
      media type parameter to the Atom media type.  This allows profiles to
      become visible at the media type level, so that servers as well as
      clients can indicate support for specific Atom profiles in
      conversations, for example when communicating via HTTP.  This
      specification updates RFC 4287 by adding the "profile" media type
      parameter to the application/atom+xml media type registration.

  "Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting and Conformance
  (DMARC)", Murray Kucherawy, Elizabeth Zwicky, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-kucherawy-dmarc-base-01.txt>

      This memo presents a proposal for a scalable mechanism by which a
      mail sending organization can express, using the Domain Name System,
      domain-level policies and preferences for message validation,
      disposition, and reporting, and a mail receiving organization can use
      those policies and preferences to improve mail handling.
      
      The email ecosystem currently lacks a cohesive mechanism through
      which email senders and receivers can make use of multiple
      authentication protocols to establish reliable domain identifiers,
      communicate policies about those identifiers, and report about mail
      using those identifiers.  This lack of cohesion has several effects:
      receivers have difficulty providing feedback to senders about
      authentication, senders therefore have difficulty evaluating their
      authentication deployments, and as a result neither is able to make
      effective use of existing authentication technology
      
      The enclosed proposal is not intended to introduce mechanisms that
      provide elevated delivery privilege of authenticated email.  The
      proposal presents a mechanism for policy distribution that enables a
      continuum of increasingly strict handling of messages that fail
      multiple authentication checks, from no action, through altered
      delivery, up to message rejection.

  "Home Documents for HTTP Services: XML Syntax", Erik Wilde, 2013-08-29,
  <draft-wilde-home-xml-02.txt>

      The current draft for HTTP Home Documents provides a JSON syntax
      only.  This draft provides an XML syntax for the same underlying data
      model, so that the concept of HTTP Home Documents can be consistently
      exposed in both JSON- and XML-based HTTP services.
      
      Note to Readers
      
      Please discuss this draft on the apps-discuss mailing list [1].
      
      Online access to all versions and files is available on github [2].

  "ICANN Registry Interfaces", Gustavo Lozano, 2013-10-07,
  <draft-lozano-icann-registry-interfaces-04.txt>

      This document describes the interfaces provided by ICANN to Registry
      Operators in order to fulfill the requirements of Specification 2 and
      3 of the New gTLD Base Agreement.  The interface provided by ICANN to
      Data Escrow Agents in order to fulfill the requirements of
      Specification 2 of the New gTLD Base Agreement is also described in
      this document.

  "The IETF Profile URI Registry", Markus Lanthaler, 2013-09-17,
  <draft-lanthaler-profile-registry-03.txt>

      This document defines a registry for profile URIs to be used in
      specifications standardizing profiles.

  "ForCES Protocol Extensions", Jamal Hadi Salim, 2013-07-05,
  <draft-jhs-forces-protoextenstion-01.txt>

      Experience in implementing and deploying ForCES architecture has
      demonstrated need for a few small extensions both to ease
      programmability and to improve wire efficiency of some transactions.
      This document describes a few extensions to the ForCES Protocol
      Specification [RFC5810] semantics to achieve that end goal.

  "HTTP Session Management", Phillip Hallam-Baker, 2013-05-14,
  <draft-hallambaker-httpsession-01.txt,.pdf>

      The HTTP Session Management Mechanism provides a mean of securely
      establishing a persistent authentication session between a HTTP
      client and server that does not rely on the presentation of a
      confidential bearer token.  The Session Management Mechanism is
      intended to provide a replacement for the existing HTTP State
      Management Mechanism (Cookies) for this purpose.
      
      This document defines the HTTP Accept-Session, Set-Session and
      Session headers and specifies their use to establish symmetric
      authentication keys and their use to authenticate and verify specific
      parts of an HTTP message.  Other means by which keys used to
      authenticate the messages are established are outside the scope of
      this document.

  "Proposed Refactoring of JOSE to Align Encryption and Key Wrapping",
  Richard Barnes, 2013-05-05, <draft-barnes-jose-key-wrapping-01.txt>

      The discussions around key wrapping in the JOSE working group have
      raised new requirements for wrapped keys, namely: (1) Wrapping keys
      other than symmetric keys, (2) cryptographically binding attributes
      to keys, and (3) allowing the use of AEAD cryptographic algorithms
      for key wrapping (other than AES-KW).  This document proposes a
      refactoring of the JOSE document set that provides a cleaner
      conceptual structure for JWS / JWE and transparent support for
      wrapped keys, all with a relatively minor impact on the compact form
      of JWS and JWE objects.

  "Survey of MPTCP Implementations", Philip Eardley, 2013-07-12,
  <draft-eardley-mptcp-implementations-survey-02.txt>

      This document presents results from the survey to gather information
      from people who have implemented MPTCP, in particular to help
      progress the protocol from Experimental to Standards track.
      
      The document currently includes answers from four teams: a Linux
      implementation from UCLouvain, a FreeBSD implementation from
      Swinburne, an anonymous implementation in a commercial OS, and a
      NetScalar Firmware implementation from Citrix Systems, Inc. Thank-
      you!
      
      In summary, we have four independent implementations of all the MPTCP
      signalling messages, with the exception of address management, and
      some interoperabiity testing has been done by the other three
      implementations with the 'reference' Linux implementation.  So it
      appears that the RFC is (at least largely) clear and correct.  On
      address management, we have only one implementation of ADD_ADDR with
      two teams choosing not to implement it.  We have one implementation
      of the working group's coupled congestion control (RFC6356) and none
      of the MPTCP-aware API (RFC6897).
      
      The main suggested improvements are around
      
      o  how MPTCP falls back (if the signalling is interrupted by a
      middlebox): (1) corner cases that are not handled properly, (2) at
      the IETF, the MPTCP community should work with middlebox vendors,
      either to reduce or eliminate the need for fallback or to
      understand the middlebox interactions better.
      
      o  security: both better MPTCP security (perhaps building on SSL) and
      a lighter weight mechanism, preferably both in one mechanism.
      
      It is hoped that the next version can include information from any
      other implementations.  If you are an implementer and want to
      contribute your answers, please see the -01 version of this document
      for a blank survey ready to be filled in.

  "DHCPv6 Dynamic Reconfiguration", Prashanth Patil, Mohamed Boucadair,
  Dan Wing, Tirumaleswar Reddy, 2013-09-13,
  <draft-wing-dhc-dns-reconfigure-02.txt>

      This specification extends DHCPv6 so that a DHCPv6 Relay Agent can
      dynamically indicate end host connectivity to a DHCPv6 Server.  This
      information is also triggered by any change in connectivity type
      provided to the host.  The DHCPv6 server uses this information as an
      input to its decision-making about configuration parameters to be
      conveyed to that host.

  "Advertising MPLS labels in IS-IS", Hannes Gredler, Shane Amante, Tom
  Scholl, Luay Jalil, 2013-05-21,
  <draft-gredler-isis-label-advertisement-03.txt>

      Historically MPLS label distribution was driven by protocols like
      LDP, RSVP and LBGP.  All of those protocols are session oriented.  In
      order to obtain a label binding for a given destination FEC from a
      given router one needs first to establish an LDP/RSVP/LBGP session
      with that router.
      
      Advertising MPLS labels in IGPs
      [I-D.gredler-rtgwg-igp-label-advertisement] describes several use
      cases where utilizing the flooding machinery of link-state protocols
      for MPLS label distribution allows to obtain the binding without
      requiring to establish an LDP/RSVP/LBGP session with that router.
      
      This document describes the protocol extension to distribute MPLS
      label bindings using the IS-IS protocol.

  "Design Recommendations for bfd to survive Planned Graceful restart",
  Palanivelan Appanasamy, 2013-09-20,
  <draft-palanivelan-bfd-gr-rec-01.txt>

      Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (bfd) defined in RFC5880 is
      comprehensive and has sufficient mechanisms to overcome challenges in
      surviving Graceful Restart (Planned). However, implementations with
      architectural limitation were found to influence a BFD failure, in a
      process intensive environment.This memo outlines design options to
      overcome the challenges, within the existing bfd framework, in
      surviving planned GracefulRestart.

  "Terminology for Large MeAsurement Platforms (LMAP)", Philip Eardley, Al
  Morton, Marcelo Bagnulo, Trevor Burbridge, 2013-07-11,
  <draft-eardley-lmap-terminology-02.txt>

      This documents defines terminology for Large Scale Measurement
      Platforms.

  "Advertising MPLS labels in OSPF", Hannes Gredler, Shane Amante, Tom
  Scholl, Luay Jalil, 2013-05-21,
  <draft-gredler-ospf-label-advertisement-03.txt>

      Historically MPLS label distribution was driven by protocols like
      LDP, RSVP and LBGP.  All of those protocols are session oriented.  In
      order to obtain label binding for a given destination FEC from a
      given router one needs first to establish an LDP/RSVP/LBGP session
      with that router.
      
      Advertising MPLS labels in IGPs
      [I-D.gredler-rtgwg-igp-label-advertisement] describes several use
      cases where utilizing the flooding machinery of link-state protocols
      for MPLS label distribution allows to obtain the binding without
      requiring to establish an LDP/RSVP/LBGP session with that router.
      
      This document describes the protocol extension to distribute MPLS
      label bindings by the OSPFv2 and OSPFv3 protocol.

  "Differentiated Service Code Point and Explicit Congestion Notification
  Monitoring in Two-Way Active Measurement Protocol (TWAMP)", Jonas Hedin,
  Greg Mirsky, Steve Baillargeon, 2013-10-02,
  <draft-hedin-ippm-type-p-monitor-02.txt>

      This document describes an OPTIONAL feature for TWAMP [RFC5357]
      allowing the monitoring of the Differentiated Service Code Point and
      Explicit Congestion Notification fields with the TWAMP-Test protocol.

  "Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS) Key Package Receipt and Error
  Content Types", Russ Housley, 2013-10-04,
  <draft-housley-ct-keypackage-receipt-n-error-05.txt>

      This document defines the syntax for two Cryptographic Message Syntax
      (CMS) content types, one for key package receipts, and another for
      key package errors.  The key package receipt content type is used to
      confirm receipt of an identified key package or collection of key
      packages.  The key package error content type is used to indicate an
      error occurred during the processing of a key package.  CMS can be
      used to digitally sign, digest, authenticate, or encrypt these
      content types.

  "Algorithms for Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS) Key Package Receipt
  and Error Content Types", Sean Turner, 2013-05-20,
  <draft-turner-ct-keypackage-receipt-n-error-algs-03.txt>

      This document describes the conventions for using several
      cryptographic algorithms with the Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)
      key package receipt and error content types.  Specifically, it
      includes conventions necessary to implement SignedData,
      EnvelopedData, EncryptedData, and AuthEnvelopedData.

  "Techniques for Tracking Inventory Using DHCPv6 DUID", Ted Lemon,
  2013-10-21, <draft-lemon-dhc-inventory-02.txt>

      In the years since DHCPv4 gained widespread popularity, one of the
      uses to which organizations have put it is inventory tracking:
      associating identifiers scanned from packaging with records in an
      inventory database.  This document describes various means for
      accomplishing the same purpose using DHCPv6.  This document also
      updates RFC3315 by clarifying the meaning of some normative language
      regarding the DUID-LL and DUID-LLT DUID types.

  "Problems with STUN Authentication for TURN", Tirumaleswar Reddy, Ram R,
  Muthu Perumal, Alper Yegin, 2013-09-30,
  <draft-reddy-behave-turn-auth-04.txt>

      This document discusses some of the issues with STUN authentication
      for TURN messages.

  "IMAP4 non-synchronizing literals", John Myers, Alexey Melnikov,
  2013-04-23, <draft-melnikov-rfc2088bis-00.txt>

      The Internet Message Access Protocol (RFC 3501) contains the
      "literal" syntactic construct for communicating strings.  When
      sending a literal from client to server, IMAP requires the client to
      wait for the server to send a command continuation request between
      sending the octet count and the string data.  This document specifies
      an alternate form of literal which does not require this network
      round trip.

  "DNS-like system for OID", Noel Torres, 2013-04-24,
  <draft-torres-dnsext-oid-00.txt>

      This file justifies and explains a DNS-like system for storing the
      correspondence between OID names and numbers, as well as some
      additional data that might be deemed useful. It is aimed to be
      implemented as an extension to current DNS mechanisms by the addition of
      some Resource Record and Query types.

  "Non-Gregorian Recurrence Rules in iCalendar", Cyrus Daboo, Gregory
  Yakushev, 2013-07-15, <draft-daboo-icalendar-rscale-01.txt>

      This document defines how non-Gregorian recurrence rules can be
      specified in iCalendar data.

  "TRILL Integrated Routing and Bridging Solution", Hao Weiguo, Li Yizhou,
  2013-07-11, <draft-hao-trill-irb-02.txt>

      Currently, TRILL solution can only provide optimum unicast
      forwarding just for Layer2 traffic of intra-subnet forwarding, not
      for Layer3 traffic(inter-subnet forwarding). In this document, a
      TRILL Integrated Routing and Bridging (IRB) solution is introduced
      to provide optimum unicast forwarding not just for Layer 2 traffic
      (intra-subnet forwarding), but also for Layer 3 traffic (inter-
      subnet forwarding). In the TRILL IRB scenario, an edge RB MUST
      perform the bridging function for the End Systems that are on the
      same subnet and the IP routing for the End Systems that are on the
      different subnets of same tenant.ESADI extension can be used for
      synchronizing <MAC, IP> correspondence among edge RBridges. To
      reduce the number of ESADI session among edge RBridges, Management
      Data Label for ESADI is suggested to be used.

  "Implementation Experience of Identifier-Locator Network Protocol for
  IPv6 (ILNPv6)", Jun Bi, You Wang, Kai Gao, 2013-04-28,
  <draft-bi-rrg-ilnpv6-implementation-experience-00.txt>

      The Identifier-Locator Network Protocol (ILNP) defines an
      evolutionary enhancement to IP to address multi-homing, mobility as
      well as other issues. This document provides experience of
      implementing ILNPv6 which is a specific engineering instance of ILNP
      based on IPv6. This document describes the problems arisen and our
      choices to solve the issues which may be helpful to others in
      implementing the protocol.

  "The application/firmware, application/firmware-receipt, and
  application/firmware-error media types", Sean Turner, Russ Housley,
  2013-04-30, <draft-turner-application-firmware-media-types-00.txt>

      This document registers the application/firmware,
      application/firmware-receipt and application/firmware-error media
      media types for use with the corresponding CMS (Cryptographic Message
      Syntax) content types defined in RFC 4108.

  "OSPFv3 LSA Extendibility", Acee Lindem, Sina Mirtorabi, Abhay Roy, Fred
  Baker, 2013-09-10, <draft-acee-ospfv3-lsa-extend-02.txt>

      OSPFv3 requires functional extension beyond what can readily be done
      with the fixed-format Link State Advertisement (LSA) as described in
      RFC 5340.  Without LSA extension, attributes associated with OSPFv3
      links and advertised IPv6 prefixes must be advertised in separate
      LSAs and correlated to the fixed-format LSA.  This document extends
      the LSA format by allowing the optional inclusion of Type-Length-
      Value (TLV) tuples in the LSAs.  Backward compatibility mechanisms
      are also described.

  "A Procedure for Cautious Delegation of a DNS Name", Olaf Kolkman,
  Andrew Sullivan, Warren Kumari, 2013-08-01,
  <draft-kolkman-cautious-delegation-02.txt>

      NOTE: The authors recognize that the statistical models that would
      inform the process are not well understood and that the possibilities
      to game the system might be unmountable.  Unless we reach more
      insights on how to deal with this details this work is abandoned.
      
      Sometimes, a DNS name is known to be in use in the wild even though
      it was never properly delegated.  This situation appears
      particularly, but not only, true in certain domains near the root of
      the tree: people have independently used those non-existent top-level
      domains as private namespaces.  If those names are to be delegated in
      the public DNS, prudence dictates that collisions between the private
      uses and the public use be minimized.  We outline a procedure to
      evaluate the harm of delegation.

  "Router Advertisement based privacy extension in IPv6
  autoconfiguration",  Hosnieh, Christoph Meinel, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-rafiee-6man-ra-privacy-08.txt>

      The purpose of this document is to address the privacy issues that
      exist within the Privacy Extension (RFC 44941) document so that the
      Privacy Extension document can then be updated to correct these
      shortcomings. These issues include the generation of public addresses
      based on EUI-64, not choosing a good randomized function, not
      changing the Interface ID (IID) when receiving a new router
      advertisement, and some wording issues that might be ambiguous in
      their interpretation.

  "IPv6 Email Authentication", Douglas Otis, David Rand, 2013-05-09,
  <draft-otis-ipv6-email-authent-01.txt>

      IPv6 facilitates network routing over an incredibly vast address
      space, but abuse mitigation resolving to underlying structures of
      routes or blocks of prefixes would be highly disruptive due to
      collateral effects.  Use of domains minimizes unintended coincidental
      blocking while offering the consolidation necessary to facilitate
      connection management.  Currently, email lacks conventions ensuring
      SMTP clients can be identified by an authenticated domain.
      
      DKIM is independent of intended recipients and domains accountable
      for having sent email.  SPF normally requires several text based
      responses imposing high overhead to query various locations.  These
      locations can be constructed by email-address local-part macros which
      can flood caches or leverage DNS name compression to further increase
      network DDoS amplifications when receivers' attempt to verify message
      sources which may then only offer authorization, not authentication
      of accountable domains.  Most email abuse, including what might be
      imposed by SPF, is prevented with comprehensive mapping of the
      address space, but such mapping is impractical with IPv6.
      
      An effective authenticated domain name alternative is needed to
      provide a basis for assessing and reacting to abusive behavior.  For
      most high scale protocols, this involves cryptography.

  "RTP payload format for Enhanced Variable Rate Narrowband-Wideband plus
  2kbps Codec (EVRC-NW2K)", Alok Gupta, 2013-05-02,
  <draft-agupta-payload-rtp-evrc-nw2k-00.txt>

      This document specifies real-time transport protocol (RTP) payload
      formats to be used for the Enhanced Variable Rate Narrowband-Wideband
      plus 2kbps Codec (EVRC-NW2K).  Three media type registrations are
      included for EVRC-NW2K RTP payload formats.  In addition, a file
      format is specified for transport of EVRC-NW2K speech data in storage
      mode applications such as e-mail.

  "Plan B: a proposal for signaling multiple media sources in WebRTC.",
  Justin Uberti, 2013-05-02, <draft-uberti-rtcweb-plan-00.txt>

      This document explains how multiple media sources can be signaled in
      WebRTC using SDP, in a fashion that avoids many common problems and
      provides a simple control surface to the receiver.

  "HTTP Signatures", Mark Cavage, Manu Sporny, 2013-05-04,
  <draft-cavage-http-signatures-00.txt>

      This document describes a way to add origin authentication, message
      integrity, and replay resistance to HTTP requests.  It is intended to
      be used over the HTTPS protocol.

  "Session Initiation Protocol Instance ID usage by the Open Mobile
  Alliance Push-to-talk over Cellular", Andrew Allen, 2013-10-19,
  <draft-allen-dispatch-poc-instanceid-usage-01.txt>

      This document describes how SIP Instance ID as defined in RFC 5626
      [1] is used by the Open Mobile Alliance (OMA), for Push-to-talk over
      Cellular (PoC) and addresses security concerns with use of the SIP
      instance ID in non-register requests.

  "TRILL OAM MIB", Deepak Kumar, Samer Salam, Tissa Senevirathne,
  2013-10-19, <draft-deepak-trill-oam-mib-01.txt>

      This defines Management Information Base (MIB) for the IETF TRILL
      (Transparent Interconnection of Lots of Links) OAM objects.

  "Using SDP with Large Numbers of Media Flows", Adam Roach, Martin
  Thomson, 2013-05-07, <draft-roach-rtcweb-plan-a-00.txt>

      A recurrent theme in WebRTC has been the need to handle very large
      numbers of media flows.  Unfortunately, naive uses of SDP do not
      handle this case particularly well.  This document describes a modest
      set of extensions to SDP which allow it to cleanly handle arbitrary
      numbers of flows while still retaining a large degree of backward
      compatibility with existing and non-RTCWEB endpoints.

  "An Approach for Adding RTCWEB Media Streams without Glare", Adam Roach,
  2013-05-07, <draft-roach-rtcweb-glareless-add-00.txt>

      One of the ongoing challenges in dealing with the massive number of
      streams that RTCWEB implementations may wish to instantiate and
      manipulate is the ability to add and remove streams in a way that
      avoids the condition known as "glare."  This document describes a
      non-normative set of behaviors that RTCWEB implementations can
      implement to completely avoid inducing a glare condition.

  "Supporting Authentication Trailer for OSPFv3", Manav Bhatia, Vishwas
  Manral, Acee Lindem, 2013-06-23, <draft-acee-ospf-rfc6506bis-03.txt>

      Currently, OSPF for IPv6 (OSPFv3) uses IPsec as the only mechanism
      for authenticating protocol packets.  This behavior is different from
      authentication mechanisms present in other routing protocols (OSPFv2,
      Intermediate System to Intermediate System (IS-IS), RIP, and Routing
      Information Protocol Next Generation (RIPng)).  In some environments,
      it has been found that IPsec is difficult to configure and maintain
      and thus cannot be used.  This document defines an alternative
      mechanism to authenticate OSPFv3 protocol packets so that OSPFv3 does
      not only depend upon IPsec for authentication.  This document
      obsoletes RFC 6506.

  "Username Interoperability", Peter Saint-Andre, 2013-10-19,
  <draft-saintandre-username-interop-02.txt>

      Various Internet protocols define constructs for usernames, i.e., the
      local part of an address such as "localpart@example.com".  This
      document describes a subset of characters to allow in usernames for
      maximal interoperability across Internet protocols.  The subset might
      prove useful in cases where a provider offers multiple services using
      the same underlying identifier.

  "Address Autoconfiguration for RPL", Wan-Ting Zhu, 2013-05-10,
  <draft-zhu-roll-addr-autoconf-00.txt>

      This document presents a straightforward address
      autoconfiguration mechanism for RPL over low power and lossy
      networks (LLN). A solution is proposed to add the capability
      of reusable address allocation. In this solution, nodes are
      assigned with unique IPv6 addresses according to their positions
      in the network. The amount of routing entries kept at each node
      is reduced. Also, this document introduces a dynamic adjustment
      strategy for adapting to uneven distribution of node density.

  "The WebRTC Data Channel as a Transport for the Message Session Relay
  Protocol (MSRP)", Peter Dunkley, Gavin Llewellyn, 2013-05-10,
  <draft-pd-msrp-webrtc-00.txt>

      The WebRTC Data Channel enables two-way real-time communication
      between browsers.  This document updates normatively updates RFC 4975
      to add support for WebRTC Data Channel as a transport for MSRP
      (Message Session Relay Protocol).  This will enable secure, low-
      latency, structured peer-to-peer messaging between WebRTC end-points.

  "Netconf surprises", Tom Petch, 2013-05-10,
  <draft-petch-netconf-surprises-00.txt>

      This document identifies some aspects of Netconf that may come as a
      suprise to those familiar with the use of SNMP for device management.

  "Disable "Proxy ARP for Everything" on IPv4 link-local in the presence
  of IPv6 global address", Andrew Yourtchenko, Owen, 2013-05-10,
  <draft-yourtchenko-ipv6-disable-ipv4-proxyarp-00.txt>

      rfc3927 defines the behavior "Proxy ARP for Everything" in case the
      only address present on the host is IPv4 link-local.  However, it
      does not specify anything about the presence or absence of IPv6
      global addressing.  This results in the hosts assuming it has both
      IPv4 and IPv6 connectivity in the scenario where the host itself is
      dualstack-enabled, but the network supplies only IPv6 configuration
      information.  Some implementations in this case may decide to use
      IPv4, which results in long connection delays.  This document
      proposes to avoid the "Proxy ARP for Everything" behavior if the host
      has been assigned an IPv6 address.

  "Power Based Topologies in OSPF using LDP for label exchanges", Shankar
  Raman, Balaji Venkat, Gaurav Raina, Vasan Srini, 2013-05-10,
  <draft-mjsraman-rtgwg-ospf-ldp-power-topo-00.txt>

      In this specification OSPF shortest path first computation is done
      based on power ratios (consumed-power to available-bandwidth OR
      available-bandwidth to available-bandwidth) assigned to links and
      nodes such as Broadcast-Multi-Access networks that form part of the
      topology in an area. When MPLS is deployed in the area (be it the
      backbone or non-backbone area) LDP can be used to distribute a
      disjoint set of labels for the power based topology. Flows some or
      all of those that traverse the area can then be mapped either to the
      regular shortest-path tree or the power based shortest-path tree.
      This document specifies the proposal to construct and maintain such a
      tree called the power based SPT.

  "DKIM is Harmful as Specified", Douglas Otis, David Rand, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-otis-dkim-harmful-04.txt>

      Currently, email lacks conventions ensuring SMTP clients can be
      identified by an authenticated domain.  Unfortunately many hope to
      use DKIM as an alternative, but it is independent of intended
      recipients and domains accountable for having sent the message.  This
      means DKIM is poorly suited at establishing abuse assessments of
      unsolicited commercial email otherwise known as SPAM, nor was this
      initially DKIM's intent.  DKIM lacks message context essential to
      ensure fair assessment and to ensure this assessment is not poisoned
      (Who initiated the transaction and to whom).
      
      DKIM was instead intended to establish increased levels of trust
      based upon valid DKIM signatures controlling acceptance and what a
      user sees within the FROM header field.  But DKIM failed to guard
      against pre-pended header fields where any acceptance based on valid
      DKIM signatures is sure to exclude header field spoofing, especially
      that of the FROM.  This weakness allows malefactors to exploit DKIM
      signature acceptance established by high-volume DKIM domains to spoof
      ANY other domain, even when prohibited within the Signer's network.

  "WebSocket Protocol as a Transport for Traversal Using Relays around NAT
  (TURN)", Chen Xin, Sergio Murillo, Oleg Moskalenko, Victor Pascual,
  Lorenzo Miniero, 2013-09-12,
  <draft-chenxin-behave-turn-websocket-01.txt,.pdf>

      This document defines an extension to the Traversal Using Relays
      around NAT (TURN) protocol, in order to allow it to run over a
      WebSocket channel.  This will allow clients in restrictive networks
      to traverse them and effectively exchange and relay media or data
      over WebSockets.

  "BGP Extension for MVPN Site-Type Attribute", Pradeep Jain, Geetha
  RemaDevi, Jayant Kotalwar, Girish Birajdar, Jeffrey Zhang, 2013-05-15,
  <draft-jain-mvpn-bgp-sitetype-attribute-00.txt>

      This document defines a new BGP attribute in BGP based multicast VPN,
      that allows a MVPN PE router to inform the rest of MVPN PE routers
      whether it is a sender site/receiver site and there by avoid all
      other PEs from setting up P-tunnels to the sender site PE.  This
      would reduce control plane states in the network and allow efficient
      network bandwidth utilization .

  "Last Autonomous System (AS) Reservations", Jeffrey Haas, Jon Mitchell,
  2013-05-16, <draft-jhjm-idr-last-as-reservations-00.txt>

      This document reserves two Autonomous System numbers (ASNs) at the
      end of the 16 bit and 32 bit ranges, described in this document as
      "Last ASNs" and recommends they not be used by operators.

  "Web Conference Recording Use Case", Paul Kyzivat, Michael Yan,
  2013-05-16, <draft-kyzivat-siprec-webconf-use-case-00.txt>

      The current work of SIPREC will soon finish.  As its charter defined,
      SIPREC has covered industries like financial trading floors, contact
      center and emergency service bureaus.  But when talking about
      products or solutions like data or web conferencing, SIPREC is
      insufficient to record all aspects of calls with different
      interactive media channels.  This draft tries to show a use case for
      web conference recording and show how it can work well under SIPREC
      mechanism.

  "Macros Nixed by Major Providers", Douglas Otis, David Rand, 2013-05-28,
  <draft-otis-spfbis-macros-nixed-01.txt>

      SPF is a popular tool for managing email blocking issues.  It has
      also helped reduce backscatter related with Non-Delivery
      Notifications as was intended.  A practically unused feature is the
      SPF macro capability that SPFbis still in part retains.  This feature
      greatly diminishes SPF's utility and actually threatens email
      interchange, especially when used in conjunction with secondary
      policy layers when also ignored by major providers.  The macro
      mechanism is also unable to cope with internationalization, and is
      found in virtually none of the published resource records.  It is
      counter productive to retain the largely unused and often unsupported
      macro feature, despite efforts expended to develop the macro
      language.

  "JSON Service Connect (JCX) Protocol", Phillip Hallam-Baker, 2013-07-08,
  <draft-hallambaker-wsconnect-04.txt,.pdf>

      JSON Service Connect (JCX) is a JSON/REST Web Service that may be
      used to establish and maintain a 'connection binding' of a device to
      an account held with a Web Service Provider.  Multiple connection
      bindings may be established under the same account to support
      multiple devices and/or multiple users of a single device.  A
      connection binding permits a device to securely connect to one or
      more services offered by the Web Service Provider with support for
      protocol and protocol version agilty and fault tollerance.
      
      The protocol is presented as a HTTP/JSON Web Service and uses the
      HTTP session continuation mechanism for authentication of transaction
      messages and supports negotiation of a HTTP session continuation
      mechanism context for the established endpoint connections.

  "SMTP security via opportunistic DANE TLS", Viktor Dukhovni, Wesley
  Hardaker, 2013-07-15, <draft-dukhovni-smtp-opportunistic-tls-01.txt>

      This memo describes a protocol for opportunistic TLS security based
      on the DANE TLSA DNS record.  The design goal is an incremental
      transition of the Internet email backbone (MTA to MTA SMTP traffic)
      from today's unauthenticated and unencrypted connections to TLS
      encrypted and authenticated delivery when the client is DANE TLSA
      aware and the server domain publishes DANE TLSA records for its MX
      hosts.

  "DANE TLSA implementation and operational guidance", Viktor Dukhovni,
  Wesley Hardaker, 2013-07-15, <draft-dukhovni-dane-ops-01.txt>

      This memo provides operational guidance to server operators to help
      ensure that clients will be able to authenticate a server's
      certificate chain via published TLSA records.  Guidance is also
      provided to clients for selecting reliable TLSA record parameters to
      use for server authentication.  Finally, guidance is given to
      protocol designers who wish to make use of TLSA records to secure
      protocols using a TLS and TLSA combination.

  "HTTP/2.0 Discussion: Extension Frame Types", James Snell, 2013-05-20,
  <draft-snell-httpbis-ext-frames-00.txt>

      This memo describes the structure and use cases for a handful of
      "extension" frames types for HTTP 2.0.  The purpose of this document
      is to add to the overall discussion around the development of HTTP
      2.0 by describing ways in which the framing layer can be leveraged
      and extended.

  "A Common Operational Problem in DNS Servers - Failure To Respond.",
  Mark Andrews, 2013-05-21, <draft-andrews-dns-no-response-issue-01.txt>

      The DNS is a query / response protocol.  Failure to respond to
      queries causes both immediate operational problems and long term
      problems with protocol development.
      
      This document will identify a number of common classes of queries
      that some servers fail to respond too.  This document will also
      suggest procedures for TLD and other similar zone operators to apply
      to reduce / eliminate the problem.

  "GOST R 34.10-2012: Digital Signature Algorithm", Vasily Dolmatov,
  Alexey Degtyarev, 2013-05-21, <draft-dolmatov-gost34102012-00.txt>

      This document is intended to be a source of information about the
      Russian Federal standard for digital signatures (GOST R 34.10-2012),
      which is one of the Russian cryptographic standard algorithms (called
      GOST algorithms).  Recently, Russian cryptography is being used in
      Internet applications, and this document has been created as
      information for developers and users of GOST R 34.10-2012 for digital
      signature generation and verification.

  "The application/cms media type", Sean Turner, Russ Housley, Jim Schaad,
  2013-09-17, <draft-turner-application-cms-media-type-07.txt>

      This document registers the application/cms media types for use with
      the corresponding CMS (Cryptographic Message Syntax) content types.

  "Schnorr Signature: Non-interactive Zero Knowledge Proof for Discrete
  Logarithm", Feng Hao, 2013-05-21, <draft-hao-schnorr-00.txt>

      This document describes the Schnorr signature, a non-interactive
      variant of the three-pass Schnorr identification scheme.  The Schnorr
      signature allows one to prove the knowledge of a discrete logarithm
      without leaking its value.  It can serve as a useful building block
      for many cryptographic protocols to ensure the participants follow
      the protocol specification honestly.

  "J-PAKE: Password Authenticated Key Exchange by Juggling", Feng Hao,
  2013-05-21, <draft-hao-jpake-00.txt>

      This document specifies a Password Authenticated Key Exchange by
      Juggling (J-PAKE) protocol.  This protocol allows the establishment
      of a secure end-to-end communication channel between two remote
      parties over an insecure network solely based on a shared password,
      without requiring a Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) or any trusted
      third party.

  "IPv6 Multicast Address Scopes", Ralph Droms, 2013-07-30,
  <draft-droms-6man-multicast-scopes-02.txt>

      This document updates the definitions of IPv6 multicast scopes.

  "Recommended Usages of SHA-512/224, SHA-512/256", Tim Polk, Sean Turner,
  2013-05-23, <draft-dang-turner-sha-512-224-256-00.txt>

      This document provides recommendations on the use of the secure hash
      functions SHA-512/224 and SHA-512/256 specified in FIPS 180. SHA-
      512/224 and SHA-512/256 are SHA-512-based and truncated to match the
      output size of SHA-224 and SHA-256. On 64-bit platforms, the SHA-512-
      truncated algorithms provide better performance than their comparably
      sized SHA-224 and SHA-256 variants.

  "Dynamic RP encodings in BGP based MVPNs", Pavan Kurapati, Marco
  Rodrigues, Kurt Windisch, Saud Asif, 2013-05-23,
  <draft-kurapati-dynamicrp-bgpmvpn-00.txt>

      PIM Group-to-RP mappings are distributed dynamically using protocols
      such as BSR or Auto-RP.  The BGP-MVPN specification provides for this
      information to be encapsulated in an I-PMSI or S-PMSI provider tunnel
      between the PEs in an MVPN environment.  Since this is control
      information, it is desirable to signal this information in BGP
      between PEs, similar to carrying other customer control state such as
      C-Multicast routes.  This document specifies the mechanisms and
      procedures to carry bootstrap information via BGP to provide true
      control and data plane separation.

  "Trust Router Problem Statement", Jim Schaad, 2013-05-30,
  <draft-schaad-trust-router-problem-01.txt>

      There are a number of problems with using the current AAA framework
      for doing access control, this document looks at a number of these
      issues and poses some questions about how to create a new trust
      router system.

  "Dynamic RP encodings in BGP based MVPNs", Pavan Kurapati, Marco
  Rodrigues, Kurt Windisch, Saud Asif, 2013-05-24,
  <draft-kurapati-l3vpn-dynamicrp-bgpmvpn-00.txt>

      PIM Group-to-RP mappings are distributed dynamically using protocols
      such as BSR or Auto-RP.  The BGP-MVPN specification provides for this
      information to be encapsulated in an I-PMSI or S-PMSI provider tunnel
      between the PEs in an MVPN environment.  Since this is control
      information, it is desirable to signal this information in BGP
      between PEs, similar to carrying other customer control state such as
      C-Multicast routes.  This document specifies the mechanisms and
      procedures to carry bootstrap information via BGP to provide true
      control and data plane separation.

  "VxLAN Router Alert Option", Kanwar Singh, Pradeep Jain, Florin Balus,
  Wim Henderickx, 2013-05-24, <draft-singh-nvo3-vxlan-router-alert-00.txt>

      This proposal describes a new option to achieve a mechanism which
      alerts VxLAN terminating VTEP to more closely examine the contents of
      the packet encapsulated under VxLAN header.  This option is useful
      for case(s) where a given frame encapsulated within a given VXLAN
      segment responsible for carrying data between two different End
      Systems contains some control information (e.g OAM information) that
      may require special handling/processing by terminating VTEP.

  "NVGRE Router Alert Option", Kanwar Singh, Pradeep Jain, Florin Balus,
  Wim Henderickx, 2013-05-24, <draft-singh-nvo3-nvgre-router-alert-00.txt>

      This proposal describes a new option to achieve a mechanism which
      alerts NVGRE egress End Point to more closely examine the contents of
      the packet encapsulated under NVGRE header.  This option is useful
      for case(s) where a given frame encapsulated within a given NVGRE
      segment responsible for carrying data between two different End
      Systems contains some control information (e.g OAM information) that
      may require special handling/processing at NVGRE egress End Point.

  "PCP Extension for Third Party Authorization", Dan Wing, Tirumaleswar
  Reddy, Prashanth Patil, Reinaldo Penno, 2013-09-13,
  <draft-wing-pcp-third-party-authz-01.txt>

      It is often desirable for an application server to permit a flow
      across a firewall, as happens today when a firewall includes an
      Application Layer Gateway (ALG) function.  However, an ALG has
      several weaknesses.
      
      This document describes a cryptographic technique for an application
      server to permit a flow across a firewall.  This technique uses OAuth
      and a new PCP option.

  "PCP Considerations for WebRTC Usage", Reinaldo Penno, Tirumaleswar
  Reddy, Dan Wing, Mohamed Boucadair, 2013-05-24,
  <draft-penno-rtcweb-pcp-00.txt>

      This document describes the motivations for WebRTC applications to be
      PCP-aware and the benefits provided by PCP-capable NATs and
      Firewalls.

  "The "property" and "context" Link Relations", Ioseb Dzmanashvili,
  2013-05-26, <draft-property-and-context-link-relations-00.txt>

      RFC 5988 [RFC5988] defined the way of indicating resources on the
      Web. This specification defines link relation types that may be used
      to express the relationships between a resource and associated
      properties or between a resource and it's context.
      
      Editorial Note (To be removed by RFC Editor)
      
      Distribution of this document is unlimited.  Comments should be sent
      to the IETF Apps-Discuss mailing list (see
      <https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/apps-discuss>).

  "Secure Origin Identification: Problem Statement, Requirements, and
  Roadmap", Jon Peterson, Henning Schulzrinne, Hannes Tschofenig,
  2013-09-04, <draft-peterson-secure-origin-ps-02.txt>

      Over the past decade, SIP has become a major signaling protocol for
      voice communications, one which has replaced many traditional
      telephony deployments.  However, interworking SIP with the
      traditional telephone network has ultimately reduced the security of
      Caller ID systems.  Given the widespread interworking of SIP with the
      telephone network, the lack of effective standards for identifying
      the calling party in a SIP session has granted attackers new powers
      as they impersonate or obscure calling party numbers when
      orchestrating bulk commercial calling schemes, hacking voicemail
      boxes or even circumventing multi-factor authentication systems
      trusted by banks.  This document therefore examines the reasons why
      providing identity for telephone numbers on the Internet has proven
      so difficult, and shows how changes in the last decade may provide us
      with new strategies for attaching a secure identity to SIP sessions.

  "P6R's Secure Shell Public Key Subsystem", Mark Joseph, Jim Susoy,
  2013-09-30, <draft-joseph-pkix-p6rsshextension-04.txt>

      The Secure Shell Public Key Subsystem protocol defines a key
      distribution
      protocol to provision an SSH server with user's public
      keys.  However,
      that protocol is limited to provisioning an SSH server.
      This document
      describes a new protocol that builds on the protocol
      defined in RFC 4819
      to allow the provisioning of keys and certificates
      to a server using the
      SSH transport.
      
      The new protocol allows the calling client to organize
      keys and certificates in different namespaces on a server.  These
      namespaces can be used by the server to allow a client to configure
      any application running on the server (e.g., SSH, KMIP, SNMP).
      
      The new protocol provides a server-independent mechanism for clients
      to add public keys, remove public keys, add certificates, remove
      certificates, and list the current set of keys and certificates known by
      the server by namespace (e.g., list all public keys in the SSH
      namespace).
      
      Rights to manage keys and certificates in a specific namespace are
      specific and limited to the authorized user and are defined as part of
      the server's implementation.   The described protocol is backward
      compatible to version 2 defined by RFC 4819.

  "Using UDP Checksum Trailers in the Network Time Protocol (NTP)", Tal
  Mizrahi, 2013-10-21, <draft-mizrahi-ntp-checksum-trailer-01.txt>

      The Network Time Protocol (NTP) allows clients to synchronize to a
      time server using timestamped protocol messages. To faciliate
      accurate timestamping, some implementations use hardware-based
      timestamping engines that integrate the accurate transmission time
      into every outgoing NTP packet during transmission. Since these
      packets are transported over UDP, the UDP checksum field is then
      updated to reflect this modification. This document proposes an
      extension field that includes a 2-octet Checksum Trailer, allowing
      timestamping engines to reflect the checksum modification in the last
      2 octets of the packet rather than in the UDP checksum field. The
      behavior defined in this document is interoperable with existing NTP
      implementations.

  "UDP Checksum Trailer in OWAMP and TWAMP", Tal Mizrahi, 2013-10-08,
  <draft-mizrahi-owamp-twamp-checksum-trailer-01.txt>

      The One-Way Active Measurement Protocol (OWAMP) and the Two-Way
      Active Measurement Protocol (TWAMP) are used for performance
      monitoring in IP networks. Delay measurement is performed in these
      protocols by using timestamped test packets. Some implementations use
      hardware-based timestamping engines that integrate the accurate
      transmission timestamp into every outgoing OWAMP/TWAMP test packet
      during transmission.  Since these packets are transported over UDP,
      the UDP checksum field is then updated to reflect this modification.
      This document proposes to use the last 2 octets of every test packet
      as a Checksum Trailer, allowing timestamping engines to reflect the
      checksum modification in the last 2 octets rather than in the UDP
      checksum field. The behavior defined in this document is completely
      interoperable with existing OWAMP/TWAMP implementations.

  "Updates to the PCP Specification", Stuart Cheshire, Simon Perreault,
  2013-10-21, <draft-cheshire-pcp-unsupp-family-06.txt>

      The Port Control Protocol (PCP) allows clients to request mappings in
      NAT gateways and firewalls.  This document specifies the PCP
      UNSUPP_FAMILY error code, which enables PCP servers to inform clients
      when the requested external address family is not supported.  This
      document also removes the requirement for the PCP server to validate
      the mapping nonce, which proved to be unhelpful in practice.

  "A Fragmentation Strategy for Generic Routing Encapsulation (GRE)", Ron
  Bonica, Carlos Pignataro, Joseph Touch, 2013-08-15,
  <draft-bonica-intarea-gre-mtu-03.txt>

      This memo documents a GRE fragmentation strategy that has been
      implemented by many vendors and deployed in many networks.  It was
      written so that a) implementors will be aware of best common practice
      and b) those who rely on GRE will understand how implementations
      work.  The scope of this memo is limited to point-to-point GRE
      tunnels.  All other tunnel types are beyond the scope of this memo.

  "Connectivity Provisioning Negotiation Protocol (CPNP)", Mohamed
  Boucadair, Christian Jacquenet, 2013-10-08,
  <draft-boucadair-connectivity-provisioning-protocol-01.txt>

      This document specifies the Connectivity Provisioning Negotiation
      Protocol (CPNP) which is used to facilitate the dynamic negotiation
      of service parameters between a Customer and a Provider.  As such,
      CPNP is a generic protocol that can be used for various negotiation
      purposes that include (but are not necessarily limited to)
      connectivity provisioning services, storage facilities, CDN (Content
      Delivery Networks) footprint, etc.
      
      CPNP can be extended with new Information Elements.

  "No Plan: Economical Use of the Offer/Answer Model in WebRTC Sessions
  with Multiple Media Sources", Emil Ivov, Enrico Marocco, Peter Thatcher,
  2013-06-17, <draft-ivov-rtcweb-noplan-01.txt>

      This document describes a model for the lightweight use of SDP Offer/
      Answer in WebRTC.  The goal is to minimize reliance on Offer/Answer
      exchanges in a WebRTC session and provide applications with the tools
      necessary to implement the signalling that they may need in a way
      that best fits their custom requirements and topologies.  This
      simplifies signalling of multiple media sources or providing RTP
      Synchronisation source (SSRC) identification in multi-party sessions.
      Another important goal of this model is to remove from clients
      topological constraints such as the requirement to know in advance
      all SSRC identifiers that they could potentially introduce in a
      particular session.
      
      The model described here is similar to the one employed by the data
      channel JavaScript APIs in WebRTC, where methods are supported on
      PeerConnection without being reflected in SDP.
      
      This document does not question the use of SDP and the Offer/Answer
      model or the value they have in terms of interoperability with legacy
      or other non-WebRTC devices.

  "Authenticated Identity Management in the Session Initiation Protocol
  (SIP)", Jon Peterson, Cullen Jennings, Eric Rescorla, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-jennings-dispatch-rfc4474bis-01.txt>

      The baseline security mechanisms in the Session Initiation Protocol
      (SIP) are inadequate for cryptographically assuring the identity of
      the end users that originate SIP requests, especially in an
      interdomain context.  This document defines a mechanism for securely
      identifying originators of SIP requests.  It does so by defining new
      SIP header fields for conveying a signature used for validating the
      identity, and for conveying a reference to the credentials of the
      signer.

  "IANA Registries for BGP Extended Communities", Eric Rosen, Yakov
  Rekhter, 2013-05-30, <draft-rosen-idr-extcomm-iana-00.txt>

      This document reorganizes the IANA Registries for the type values and
      sub-type values of BGP Extended Communities attribute and the BGP
      IPv6-Address-Specific Extended Communities attribute.  This is done
      in order to remove inter-dependencies among the registries, thus
      making it easier for IANA to determine which codepoints are available
      for assignment in which registries.  This document also clarifies the
      information that must be provided to IANA when requesting an
      allocation from one or more of these registries.  These changes are
      compatible with the existing allocations, and thus do not affect
      protocol implementations.  The changes will however impact the "IANA
      Considerations" sections of future protocol specifications.  This
      document updates RFCs 4360 and 5701.

  "IPv6 Performance and Diagnostic Metrics Destination Option", Nalini
  Elkins, 2013-10-16, <draft-elkins-6man-ipv6-pdm-dest-option-04.txt>

      To diagnose performance and connectivity problems, metrics on real
      (non-synthetic) transmission are critical for timely end-to-end
      problem resolution. Such diagnostics may be real-time or after the
      fact, but must not impact an operational production network. The base
      metrics are: packet sequence number and packet timestamp.  Metrics
      derived from these will be described separately. This document solves
      these problems with a new destination option, the Performance and
      Diagnostic Metrics destination option (PDM).

  "End-to-end Response Time Needed for IPv6 Diagnostics", Nalini Elkins,
  Michael Ackermann, William Jouris, Keven Haining, Sigfrido Perdomo,
  2013-10-03, <draft-elkins-v6ops-ipv6-end-to-end-rt-needed-01.txt>

      To diagnose performance and connectivity problems, metrics on real
      (non-synthetic) transmission are critical for timely end-to-end
      problem resolution. Such diagnostics may be real-time or after the
      fact, but must not impact an operational production network. The base
      metrics are: packet sequence number and packet timestamp.  Metrics
      derived from these will be described separately. This document
      provides the background and rationale for the requirement for end-to-
      end response time.

  "IPv6 Packet Sequence Number Needed", Nalini Elkins, Michael Ackermann,
  William Jouris, Keven Haining, Sigfrido Perdomo, 2013-10-03,
  <draft-elkins-v6ops-ipv6-packet-sequence-needed-01.txt>

      To diagnose performance and connectivity problems, metrics on real
      (non-synthetic) transmission are critical for timely end-to-end
      problem resolution. Such diagnostics may be real-time or after the
      fact, but must not impact an operational production network. The base
      metrics are: packet sequence number and packet timestamp.  Metrics
      derived from these will be described separately. This document
      provides the background and rationale for the packet sequence number
      which is a part of the IPv6 Performance and Diagnostic Metrics
      Destination Option (PDM).

  "Recommended Usage of IPv6 PDM Option", Nalini Elkins, Michael
  Ackermann, William Jouris, Keven Haining, Sigfrido Perdomo, 2013-10-03,
  <draft-elkins-v6ops-ipv6-pdm-recommended-usage-01.txt>

      To diagnose performance and connectivity problems, metrics on real
      (non-synthetic) transmission are critical for timely end-to-end
      problem resolution. Such diagnostics may be real-time or after the
      fact, but must not impact an operational production network. The base
      metrics are: packet sequence number and packet timestamp.  Metrics
      derived from these will be described separately. This document
      details the recommended usage for the IPv6 Performance and Diagnostic
      Metrics Destination Option (PDM).

  "Compression of IPsec AH and ESP Headers for Constrained Environments",
  Shahid Raza, Simon Duquennoy, Goran Selander, 2013-09-03,
  <draft-raza-6lowpan-ipsec-01.txt,.ps,.pdf>

      This document describes the header compression mechanisms for the
      IPsec [RFC4301] based on the encoding scheme standardized in
      [RFC6282]. The IPsec Authentication Header (AH) and Encapsulated
      Security Payload (ESP) headers are compressed using Next Header
      Compression (NHC) defined in [RFC6282]. This document does not
      invalidate any encoding schemes proposed in 6LoWPAN [RFC6282] but
      rather complements it with compressed IPsec using the free bits in
      the IPv6 Extension Header encoding.

  "Simple Host Discovery and Configuration Protocol", Dmitry Fedorov,
  2013-06-01, <draft-d1f-shdcp-00.txt>

      The Simple Host Discovery and Configuration Protocol (SHDCP)
      provides a mechanism used when an Internet host with almost no
      configuration has to be discovered and, at the same time,
      configured to some IPv4 network.
      This task can not be accomplished by DHCP.
      Other known protocols are too complicated or proprietary.
      The key feature of the proposed protocol is simplicity.

  "Secure Bootstrapping Solution for Resource-Constrained Devices", Behcet
  Sarikaya, 2013-06-03, <draft-sarikaya-6lo-bootstrapping-solution-00.txt>

      We present a solution to initially configure the network of resource
      constrained nodes securely, a.k.a., secure bootstrapping.  The
      solution is based on EAP-TLS authentication with the use of raw
      public keys as certificates.

  "Enhanced Route Refresh Implementation Report", Keyur Patel, Robert
  Raszuk, Prashant Hiremath, 2013-06-03,
  <draft-keyupate-idr-enhanced-refresh-impl-00.txt>

      This document provides an implementation report for Enhanced Route
      refresh as defined in draft-ietf-idr-bgp-enhanced-route-refresh-03.
      The editor did not verify the accuracy of the information provided by
      respondents or by any alternative means.  The respondents are experts
      with the implementations they reported on, and their responses are
      considered authoritative for the implementations for which their
      responses represent.

  "Network Address Translation (NAT) Behavioral Requirements Updates",
  Reinaldo Penno, Simon Perreault, Mohamed Boucadair, Kengo Naito,
  2013-06-03, <draft-ietf-behave-requirements-update-00.txt>

      This document clarifies and updates several requirements of RFC4787,
      RFC5382 and RFC5508 based on operational and development experience.
      The focus of this document is NAPT44.

  "Simulating "Partial Mesh of MP2MP P-Tunnels" with Ingress Replication",
  Jeffrey Zhang, Yakov Rekhter, Andrew Dolganow, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-zzhang-l3vpn-mvpn-bidir-ingress-replication-01.txt>

      RFC 6513 described a method to support bidirectional C-flow using
      "Partial Mesh of MP2MP P-Tunnels".  This document describes how
      partial mesh of MP2MP P-Tunnels can be simulated with Ingress
      Replication, instead of a real MP2MP tunnel.  This enables a Service
      Provider to use Ingress Replication to offer transparent BIDIR-PIM
      service to its VPN customers.

  "SA46T Prefix Resolution (SA46T-PR)", Naoki Matsuhira, 2013-07-08,
  <draft-matsuhira-sa46t-pr-spec-01.txt>

      This document specifies SA46T Prefix Resolution (SA46T-PR)
      specification.  SA46T-PR is almost same as SA46T, however method of
      generation of outer IPv6 address is defferent.  SA46T is backbone
      network based approach, however SA46T-PR is stub network based
      approch.

  "SA46T Prefix Translator (SA46T-PT)", Naoki Matsuhira, 2013-07-08,
  <draft-matsuhira-sa46t-pt-spec-01.txt>

      This document specifies SA46T Prefix Translator (SA46T-PT)
      specification.  SA46T-PT expand IPv4 network plane by connecting
      SA46T domain and SA46T-PR domain.  SA46T-PT translate prefix part of
      SA46T address and SA46T-PR address both are IPv6 address.  SA46T-PT
      does not translate IPv4 packet which is encapsulated, so transparency
      of IPv4 packet is not broken.

  "Provisioning Lightweight 4over6 (lw4o6) with the Port Control Protocol
  (PCP)", Chongfeng Xie, Simon Perreault, Cathy Zhou, 2013-06-04,
  <draft-perreault-softwire-lw4over6-pcp-00.txt>

      This memo defines the procedures that a Lightweight B4 uses for
      provisioning its parameters with the Port Control Protocol.

  "Definitions and Metrics for Data Center Benchmarking", Jacob Rapp,
  Lucien Avramov, 2013-06-04, <draft-dcbench-def-00.txt>

      The purpose of this informational document is to establish
      definitions, discussion and measurement techniques for data center
      benchmarking. Also, it is to introduce new terminologies applicable
      to data center performance evaluations. The purpose of this document
      is not to define the test methodology, but rather establish the
      important concepts when one is interested in benchmarking network
      equipment in the data center.

  "Generic UDP Encapsulation for IP Tunneling", Edward Crabbe, Lucy Yong,
  KuiKe Building, 2013-10-21, <draft-yong-tsvwg-gre-in-udp-encap-02.txt>

      This document describes a method of encapsulating arbitrary protocols
      within GRE and UDP headers.  In this encapsulation, the source UDP
      port may be used as an entropy field for purposes of loadbalancing
      while the payload protocol may be identified by the GRE Protocol
      Type.

  "PIM-DM Optimizations for Large LANs", Joseph Weinstein, Joseph Keller,
  2013-06-04, <draft-weinstein-bbn-pim-dm-large-lan-00.txt>

      Optimizations to the PIM-DM protocol [RFC3973] are proposed that
      dramatically reduce the PIM-DM routing overhead on local area
      networks containing large numbers of PIM routers.  These
      optimizations reduce the likelihood of two or more routers emitting
      redundant JOIN or PRUNE messages onto the same LAN.  While these
      optimizations are of general applicability to large LANs, they were
      motivated in particular by performance requirements for supporting
      PIM-DM across LANs emulated by IP tunneling over large wireless
      MANETs.
      
      PIM-DM routers supporting these optimizations will interoperate with
      standard PIM-DM as defined in RFC 3973, even on the same LAN.
      However, to obtain maximum benefit from these optimizations, all
      PIM-DM routers on the LAN SHOULD support them.

  "Finding the Authoritative Registration Data (RDAP) Server", Marc
  Blanchet, 2013-06-04, <draft-blanchet-weirds-bootstrap-00.txt>

      This document specifies a method to find which Registration Data
      Access Protocol (RDAP) server is authoritative to answer queries for
      a requested scope, such as domain names, IP addresses or Autonomous
      System numbers.

  "PKIX over Secure HTTP (POSH)", Matthew Miller, Peter Saint-Andre,
  2013-09-27, <draft-miller-posh-02.txt>

      Experience has shown that it is extremely difficult to deploy proper
      PKIX certificates for TLS in multi-tenanted environments, since
      certification authorities will not issue certificates for hosted
      domains to hosting services, hosted domains do not want hosting
      services to hold their private keys, and hosting services wish to
      avoid liability for holding those keys.  As a result, domains hosted
      in multi-tenanted environments often deploy non-HTTP applications
      such as email and instant messaging using certificates that identify
      the hosting service, not the hosted domain.  Such deployments force
      end users and peer services to accept a certificate with an improper
      identifier, resulting in obvious security implications.  This
      document defines two methods that make it easier to deploy
      certificates for proper server identity checking in non-HTTP
      application protocols.  The first method enables the TLS client
      associated with a user agent or peer application server to obtain the
      end-entity certificate of a hosted domain over secure HTTP as an
      alternative to standard PKIX techniques.  The second method enables a
      hosted domain to securely delegate a non-HTTP application to a
      hosting service using redirects provided by HTTPS itself or by a
      pointer in a file served over HTTPS at the hosted domain.

  "The "import-via" and "export-via" attributes in RPSL Policy
  Specifications", Job Snijders, 2013-08-09,
  <draft-snijders-rpsl-via-02.txt>

      This document defines two attributes in the aut-num Class which can
      be used in RPSL policy specifications to publish desired routing
      policy regarding non-adjacent networks.

  "NSA's Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS) Key Management Attributes",
  Paul Timmel, Russ Housley, Sean Turner, 2013-08-19,
  <draft-turner-km-attributes-01.txt>

      This document defines key management attributes used by the National
      Security Agency (NSA).  The attributes can appear in asymmetric
      and/or symmetric key packages as well as the Cryptographic Message
      Syntax (CMS) content types that subsequently envelope the key
      packages.

  "Trust models of the Web PKI", Inigo Barreira, Bruce Morton, 2013-06-05,
  <draft-webpki-trustmodel-00.txt>

      This is one of a set of documents to define the operation of the Web
      PKI.  It describes the currently deployed Web PKI trust model and
      common variants.

  "Child To Parent Synchronization in DNS", Wesley Hardaker, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-hardaker-dnsop-csync-02.txt>

      This document specifies how a child zone in the DNS can publish a
      record to indicate to a parental agent that it may copy and process
      certain records from the child zone.  The existence and change of the
      record may be monitored by a parental agent, after which the parent
      may act on the data appropriately.

  "Finding the Authoritative Registration Data (RDAP) Service", Marc
  Blanchet, 2013-06-05,
  <draft-blanchet-weirds-bootstrap-ianaregistries-00.txt>

      This document specifies a method to find which Registration Data
      Access Protocol (RDAP) server is authoritative to answer queries for
      a requested scope, such as domain names, IP addresses or Autonomous
      System numbers, using data available in IANA registries.

  "Interoperability Impacts of IPv6 Interworking with Existing IPv4 SIP
  Implementations", Carl Klatsky, oej, Rifaat Shekh-Yusef, Andrew Hutton,
  Gonzalo Salgueiro, 2013-10-07,
  <draft-klatsky-dispatch-ipv6-impact-ipv4-02.txt>

      This document captures potential impacts to IPv4 SIP implementations
      when interworking with IPv6 SIP implementations.  Although some
      amount of interworking translation will occur at the network and
      application layers, an IPv4 SIP application may still encounter a SIP
      message with some IPv6 values in it, resulting in unforeseen error
      conditions.  Such potential scenarios will be identified in this
      document so that SIP application developers can define solutions to
      handle these cases.  Note, this document is not intended to be an
      exhaustive list, rather to provide an overview of some of the more
      commonly encountered potential scenarios.

  "Diameter Overload Control Solution Issues", Ben Campbell, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-campbell-dime-overload-issues-01.txt>

      The Diameter Maintenance and Extensions (DIME) working group has
      undertaken an "overload control" work item, with the goal of
      standardizing a mechanism to allow Diameter nodes to report overload
      information among themselves.  Requirements currently include, among
      others, the need to accurately report the scope of overload
      conditions, and the ability to report overload information between
      nodes that are not directly connected at the transport layer.  These
      requirements introduce complex issues.  This document describes those
      issues, in the hope that it will assist the working group's decision
      process.

  "Talk - Comet Stream Protocol", Marc Larue, 2013-06-06,
  <draft-talk-comet-stream-protocol-00.txt>

      Talk is a very simple way of communicating in real-time over HTTP.

  "Side effect of DNSSEC: an increase of DS queries", Kazunori Fujiwara,
  2013-07-15, <draft-fujiwara-dnsop-ds-query-increase-01.txt>

      An increase of periodic DS queries is observed at top level domain
      (TLD) DNS servers.  Almost all of periodic DS queries are queries for
      unsigned delegations.  The reason of the increase is low NCACHE TTL
      value and DS nonexistence.  This phenomena is DNSSEC protocol and DNS
      parameter issue.  DS queries will increase as DNSSEC validators will
      increase.

  "Programmatic Interfaces to On-demand Network Services", Masum Hasan,
  Abdelhadi Chari, David Fahed, Monique Morrow, 2013-06-07,
  <draft-masum-chari-i2rs-netservices-00.txt>

      One of the major features or requirements of Cloud is on-demand CRUD
      (Create / Read / Update / Delete) of Cloud resources or associated
      resources.  The on-demand feature dictates that resources are CRUD in
      a time-frame in the order of seconds or few minutes since the arrival
      of the resource CRUD request.  Many network resources cannot be CRUD
      in that time-frame.  With the support of programmable networking (or
      SDN) in the model of I2RS will facilitate programming of network
      resources rapidly, thus facilitating CRUD of Cloud or related network
      resources on-demand.  Network resources associated with many network
      services can be either a Cloud resource or directly associated with a
      Cloud resource.  These resources should be CRUD on-demand in Cloud
      timescale.  In this draft, employing Hybrid (virtual) Cloud as a use
      case and using I2RS as the "model", we will define few requirements
      for programmable on-demand interfaces to network services or I2NS.

  "Seamless Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) with MPLS Label
  Verification Extension", Nobo Akiya, Carlos Pignataro, David Ward, Manav
  Bhatia, Juniper Networks, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-akiya-bfd-seamless-base-02.txt,.pdf>

      This document defines a simplified mechanism to use Bidirectional
      Forwarding Detection (BFD) with large portions of negotiation aspects
      eliminated, that allows full and partial reachability verification.
      For MPLS based BFD, extensions to the generic mechanism are defined
      that allows BFD to perform a level of label verification.

  "Seamless Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) for Segment Routing
  (SR)", Nobo Akiya, Carlos Pignataro, Nagendra Kumar, 2013-06-07,
  <draft-akiya-bfd-seamless-sr-00.txt,.pdf>

      This specification defines procedures to use Seamless Bidirectional
      Forwarding Detection (BFD) in a Segment Routing (SR) based
      environment.

  "Seamless Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) for IP", Nobo Akiya,
  Carlos Pignataro, David Ward, 2013-06-07,
  <draft-akiya-bfd-seamless-ip-00.txt,.pdf>

      This specification defines procedures to use Seamless Bidirectional
      Forwarding Detection (BFD) in IP and IP signalled MPLS environments.

  "Web PKI Operations: Revocation and Status", Phillip Hallam-Baker,
  2013-10-20, <draft-hallambaker-pkixstatus-01.txt>

      This document describes the certificate status mechanisms supported
      in the Web PKI

  "Detecting VXLAN Segment Failure", Pradeep Jain, Kanwar Singh, Florin
  Balus, Wim Henderickx, Vinay Bannai, 2013-06-07,
  <draft-jain-nvo3-vxlan-ping-00.txt>

      This proposal describes a mechanism that can be used to detect Data
      Path Failures and sanity of VXLAN Control and Data Plane for a given
      VXLAN Segment.  This document defines the following:
      
      o  Information carried in a VXLAN "Echo Request", and
      
      o  "Echo Reply" for the purposes of fault detection and isolation,
      and mechanisms for reliably sending the Echo Request and reply.

  "HTTP Link Hints", Mark Nottingham, 2013-06-09,
  <draft-nottingham-link-hint-00.txt>

      This memo specifies "HTTP Link Hints", a mechanism for annotating Web
      links to HTTP(S) resources with information that otherwise might be
      discovered by interacting with them.
      
      Note to Readers
      
      This draft should be discussed on the apps-discuss mailing list; see
      [apps-discuss].

  "Publishing Organization Boundaries in the DNS", John Levine,
  2013-07-31, <draft-levine-orgboundary-02.txt>

      Often, the organization that manages a subtree in the DNS is
      different from the one that manages the tree above it.  Rather than
      describing a particular design, we describe an architecture to
      publish in the DNS the boundaries between organizations that can be
      adapted to various policy models.

  "CoAP High-Level State Option Extension", Richard Mietz, 2013-06-09,
  <draft-mietz-core-coap-state-option-00.txt>

      CoAP is a RESTful application protocol for constrained devices which
      are often equipped with sensors measuring a physical phenomenon such
      as temperature on a precise scale.  These sensor values are made
      available by a resource on the CoAP endpoint.  However, for many
      applications it is not necessary to have the full precision a sensor
      can provide.  It's often even enough to only have some high-level
      states instead of raw values.  This document presents a new option
      for CoAP to dynamically create new resources for a sensor which
      provides user-defined high-level states instead of raw sensor values.

  "Harmonizing how applications specify DANE-like usage", Olafur
  Gudmundsson, 2013-10-21, <draft-ogud-dane-vocabulary-01.txt>

      There is no standard terminology as how to talk about use of DNS in
      various application contexts, this document goal is to facilitate
      creation of such a vocabulary/taxonomy.
      
      This document started out as proposal for specific word usage for
      specifications of adding DANE like technology by different protocols/
      services.  DANE is a method for specifying in DNS records acceptable
      keys/certificates for application servers.
      
      The terms defined in this document should be applicable to all uses
      of service specification that uses DNS records.

  "Sleepy Devices using CoAP - Requirements", Esko Dijk, 2013-06-10,
  <draft-dijk-core-sleepy-reqs-00.txt>

      

  "Binary Encodings for JavaScript Object Notation: JSON-B, JSON-C,
  JSON-D", Phillip Hallam-Baker, 2013-06-10,
  <draft-hallambaker-jsonbcd-00.txt,.pdf>

      Three binary encodings for JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) are
      presented.  JSON-B (Binary) is a strict superset of the JSON encoding
      that permits efficient binary encoding of intrinsic JavaScript data
      types.  JSON-C (Compact) is a strict superset of JSON-B that supports
      compact representation of repeated data strings with short numeric
      codes.  JSON-D (Data) supports additional binary data types for
      integer and floating point representations for use in scientific
      applications where conversion between binary and decimal
      representations would cause a loss of precision.

  "Session Description Protocol Support for Tunnels (L2TP)", Anton
  Tveretin, 2013-06-11, <draft-tveretin-dispatch-l2tp-sdp-00.txt>

      This document registeres new media type (application/l2tp) to be used
      with SDP, and clarifies procedure to be used by peers for L2TP
      tunnels.

  "HTTP Header Compression", Roberto Peon, Herve Ruellan, 2013-06-11,
  <draft-ruellan-http-header-compression-00.txt>

      This document describes a format adapted to efficiently represent
      HTTP headers in the context of HTTP/2.0.

  "Sleepy Devices using CoAP - Possible Solutions", Esko Dijk, 2013-06-11,
  <draft-dijk-core-sleepy-solutions-01.txt>

      

  "DHCPv4 over A+P softwires", Ole Troan, 2013-06-12,
  <draft-troan-dhc-dhcpv4osw-00.txt>

      A node getting IPv4 access via an A+P mechanism might need other IPv4
      configuration information.  This memo describes how DHCPv4 is
      supported, on IPv4 over IPv6 tunnels with shared IPv4 addresses.

  "Profiling of DTLS for CoAP-based IoT Applications", Sye Keoh, Sandeep
  Kumar, Zach Shelby, 2013-06-12, <draft-keoh-dtls-profile-iot-00.txt>

      This document collects various implementation challenges of DTLS on
      embedded systems, and proposes a profile of DTLS for CoAP-based
      Internet of Things (IoT) applications. Specifically, this document
      investigates the application features and functionality of DTLS
      protocol, the fragmentation issue of DTLS Handshake protocol, and the
      complexity of the DTLS Handshake state machine. A RESTful DTLS
      Handshake which relies on CoAP Block-wise Transfer is proposed to
      address the fragmentation issue. The next step is to define a DTLS
      profile for embedded systems.

  "vCard S/MIME Capabilities Property", Alexey Melnikov, Sean Turner, Carl
  Wallace, 2013-06-12, <draft-turner-vcard-smimecaps-00.txt>

      This document defines a vCard S/MIME Capabilities property and it 
      defines or references values for many algorithms. The SMIME 
      Capability values can also be included in S/MIME messages as a signed 
      attribute and in public key certificates as an extension. The S/MIME 
      Capabilities property is a complement to key property, which together 
      enable usage of S/MIME without an initial exchange of email messages.

  "Offer & Answer interworking between JSEP & SIP", Parthasarathi
  Ravindran, Uwe Rauschenbach, Elangovan Manickam, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-partha-rtcweb-jsep-sip-01.txt>

      Real time communcation Web (RTCWeb) workgroup defines the real time
      commmunication using JavaScript Session establishment protocol (JSEP)
      as an offer/answer mechanism.  Session Initiation protocol (SIP) is
      IETF defined and well deployed protocol for real time communication.
      This document provides offer & answer interworking between JSEP and
      SIP.

  "IEC 62351 Security Protocol support for GDOI", Brian Weis, Maik
  Seewald, Herb Falk, 2013-08-02, <draft-weis-gdoi-iec62351-9-02.txt>

      The IEC 61850 power utility automation family of standards describe
      methods using Ethernet and IP for distributing control and data
      frames within and between substations.  The IEC 61850-90-5 and IEC
      62351-9 standards specify the use of the Group Domain of
      Interpretation (GDOI) protocol (RFC 6407) to distribute security
      transforms for some IEC 61850 security protocols.  This memo defines
      GDOI payloads to support those security protocols.

  "Middlebox considerations in NVO3 overlay networks", Melinda Shore, Gu
  Yingjie, Senthil Sivakumar, 2013-06-12,
  <draft-shore-nvo3-middleboxes-00.txt>

      This document examines middlebox considerations in nvo3 overlay
      networks.  We are concerned with both the impacts of middlebox
      presence on nvo3 overlays, and the impacts of nvo3 overlays and
      encapsulations on middlebox function.

  "Carrying Metadata in IP Networks", Stewart Bryant, Jim Guichard, Carlos
  Pignataro, Simon Spraggs, 2013-06-13, <draft-bryant-ip-metadata-00.txt>

      This document defines the mechanism for carrying and identifying the
      presence of metadata carried in addition to the payload in IPv4 and
      IPv6 packets.

  "NVGRE-EXT: Network Virtualization using Generic Routing Encapsulation
  Extensions", Murari Sridharan, Yu-Shun Wang, Pankaj Garg, Praveen
  Balasubramanian, 2013-06-13,
  <draft-sridharan-virtualization-nvgre-ext-00.txt>

      This document describes the usage of "Network Virtualization using
      Generic Routing Encapsulation (NVGRE)" Extensions (NVGRE-EXT). The
      focus of this document is on specifying the control plane operations
      done using NVGRE packets.

  "Key Wrapping with AES GCM for JWE", Michael Jones, 2013-07-14,
  <draft-jones-jose-aes-gcm-key-wrap-01.txt,.pdf>

      This specification defines how to encrypt (wrap) keys with the AES
      GCM algorithm for JSON Web Encryption (JWE) objects.

  "CLUE Switching Mixer Example", Mark Duckworth, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-duckworth-clue-switching-example-01.txt>

      This document presents an example multipoint use case scenario for
      CLUE.  This example uses the media switching variety of the Topo-
      Mixer RTP topology.  This example is intended to promote discussion
      about how to implement it using the CLUE Framework, and whether or
      not the framework as currently defined is sufficient to enable this
      use case.
      
      This version is incomplete, and is intended to raise questions and
      prompt discussion.

  "PCP Stability of External Address Recommendations", Reinaldo Penno,
  2013-06-15, <draft-penno-pcp-ext-addr-01.txt>

      This document recommends PCP Server and client behavior in light of
      Address Pooling Paired.

  "Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP) Trademark Mapping", Jiagui Xie,
  2013-06-17, <draft-xie-epp-trademark-mapping-01.txt,.pdf>

      This document describes an Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP)
      mapping for the provisioning and management of trademark stored in a
      trademark clearinghouse.  Specified in XML, the mapping defines EPP
      command syntax and semantics as applied to trademark.

  "A method for mitigating namespace collisions", Warren Kumari,
  2013-09-16, <draft-wkumari-dnsop-defense-collision-mitigate-02.txt>

      This document outlines a possible, but not recommended, method to
      mitigate the effect of collisions in the DNS namespace by providing a
      means for end users to disambiguate the conflict.

  "CoAP Entities", Isam Ishaq, Jeroen Hoebeke, Floris Van den Abeele,
  2013-06-17, <draft-ishaq-core-entities-00.txt,.pdf>

      This document describes a format to create entities that can be used
      for group communication using CoAP unicast messages.
      
      Note
      
      Discussion and suggestions for improvement are requested, and should
      be sent to core@ietf.org.

  "Packet Sequence Number based directional airtime metric for OLSRv2",
  Henning Rogge, Emmanuel Baccelli, 2013-09-18,
  <draft-rogge-baccelli-olsrv2-ett-metric-03.txt>

      This document specifies an directional airtime link metric for usage
      in OLSRv2.

  "A Trust Model for ABFAB Trust Routers", David Chadwick, 2013-06-17,
  <draft-dwc-abfab-trust-model-00.txt>

      Trust routers form an integral part of the ABFAB infrastructure for
      determining routes between IdPs and RPs and determining CoI membership.
      Since it is inherent in their name that they are to be trusted, this
      Internet Draft specifies a trust model for their operation, so that IdPs
      and RPs can rely on them to perform the tasks that they are trusted to
      perform. These tasks are:
      
      -	form a trusted route between an IdP and RP
      -	ensure that a community of interest (CoI)only has the members that it
      should have

  "Multi-homed network in EVPN", Hao Weiguo, Li Yizhou, Pei Xu,
  2013-06-17, <draft-hao-l2vpn-evpn-mhn-00.txt>

      To enhance the reliability, bridged network is normally multi-homed
      to an EVPN network, there are two categories of mechanisms to avoid
      the layer 2 traffic loop. The first category does not require the PEs
      participating in the control protocol of the bridged network, while
      the second category requires that. [EVPN] described one of the first
      category mechanisms called  designated forwarder (DF) election to
      achieve loop avoidance and vlan-based load balancing. This draft
      mainly focuses on the second category of mechanisms which can achieve
      intra-vlan MAC-based load balancing. MAC-based VLAN balancing is more
      applicable than DF election mechanism if all end stations in bridged
      network are on the same VLAN which can cause traffic congestion in DF
      link.

  "Interface Selection Mechanism for Multiple Interfaces IPv6 Hosts",
  Arnaud Kaiser, Alexandru Petrescu, 2013-06-18,
  <draft-kaiser-if-sel-00.txt>

      This document describes an interface selection mechanism that enables
      multiple interfaces (multihomed) IPv6 hosts to select their most
      appropriate egress interface to send data over the network.  The
      mechanism extends the Neighbor Discovery (ND) protocol [RFC4861] with
      two new Router Advertisement options.

  "Minimal 6TSCH Configuration", Xavier Vilajosana, Kris Pister,
  2013-07-13, <draft-vilajosana-6tsch-basic-01.txt>

      This document describes the minimal set of rules to operate a
      [IEEE802154e] Timeslotted Channel Hopping (TSCH) network.  These
      rules can be used during early interoperability testing and
      development, when the centralized and distributed solutions developed
      by the 6TSCH group are not fully implemented yet, or otherwise not
      available.

  "PCEP Extensions for Segment Routing", Siva Sivabalan, Jan Medved,
  Clarence Filsfils, Edward Crabbe, Robert Raszuk, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-sivabalan-pce-segment-routing-02.txt>

      Segment Routing (SR) enables any head-end node to select any path
      without relying on a hop-by-hop signaling technique (e.g., LDP or
      RSVP-TE).  It depends only on "segments" that are advertised by Link-
      State Interior Gateway Protocols (IGPs).  A Segment Routed Path can
      be derived from a variety of mechanisms, including an IGP Shortest
      Path Tree (SPT), explicit configuration, or a Path Computation
      Element (PCE).  This document specifies extensions to the Path
      Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) that allow a stateful PCE to
      compute and instantiate Traffic Engineering paths, as well as a PCC
      to request a path subject to certain constraint(s) and optimization
      criteria in SR networks.

  "UDP Transport Layer (UDPTL) over Datagram Transport Layer Security
  (DTLS)", Christer Holmberg, Ivo Sedlacek, 2013-06-20,
  <draft-holmberg-dispatch-udptl-dtls-00.txt>

      This document specifies how the UDP Transport Layer (UDPTL) protocol
      can be transported over the Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)
      protocol, how the usage of UDPTL over DTLS is indicated in the
      Session Description Protocol (SDP), and how UDPTL over DTLS is
      negotiated in a session established using the Session Initiation
      Protocol (SIP).

  "IPv6 Fragment Header Deprecated", Ron Bonica, Warren Kumari, Randy
  Bush, Hagen Pfeifer, 2013-07-11,
  <draft-bonica-6man-frag-deprecate-02.txt>

      This memo deprecates IPv6 fragmentation and the IPv6 fragment header.
      It provides reasons for deprecation and updates RFC 2460.

  "The file URI Scheme", Matthew Kerwin, 2013-06-20,
  <draft-kerwinm-file-scheme-00.txt>

      This document specifies the file Uniform Resource Identifier (URI)
      scheme that was originally specified in [RFC1738]. The purpose of
      this document is to keep the information about the scheme on
      standards track, since [RFC1738] has been made obsolete.

  "The 'file' URI Scheme", Matthew Kerwin, 2013-09-18,
  <draft-kerwin-file-scheme-08.txt>

      This document specifies the file Uniform Resource Identifier (URI)
      scheme that was originally specified in [RFC1738].  The purpose of
      this document is to keep the information about the scheme on
      standards track, since [RFC1738] has been made obsolete, and to
      promote interoperability by resolving disagreements between various
      implementations.
      
      Note to Readers
      
      This draft should be discussed on its github project page [github].

  "Certificate based keying scheme for DTLS secured IoT", Pawani
  Porambage, Pradeep Kumar, Andrei Gurtov, Mika Ylianttila, Erkki Harjula,
  2013-06-23, <draft-pporamba-dtls-certkey-00.txt,.pdf>

      The IP-based Internet of Things (IoT) stands for the universal
      interconnection of smart objects and back end users with the help of
      IP protocols.  Secure key management among the smart objects is an
      important aspect of IoT security.  Due to the high levels of resource
      constraints of the devices in terms of memory, battery capacity and
      CPU power, and other network characteristics such as mobility,
      scalability, heterogeneity and limited bandwidth, the conventional
      security protocols cannot be directly deployed in IoT networks in
      their raw formats.  We propose a lightweight DTLS-based keying
      mechanism for CoAP IoT smart objects which supports the scalability
      of the network and node mobility.  The protocol consumes less device
      resources and minimum network bandwidth by incurring low message
      overhead.  The smart objects can securely access the network and
      obtain certificates after an initial configuration irrespective of
      the manufacturer standards.

  "Security Framework and Key Management Protocol Requirements for 6TSCH",
  Stephen Chasko, Subir Das, Rafael Lopez, Yoshihiro Ohba, Pascal Thubert,
  Alper Yegin, 2013-07-12, <draft-ohba-6tsch-security-01.txt>

      Since 6TSCH forms layer 3 meshes over IPv6, use of key management
      protocols defined at layer 3 or above matches the target architecture
      so they can apply for the process by a new device of joining the mesh
      to extend it.  This document details that particular operation within
      the whole 6TSCH architecture.

  "Group Authentication", Judy Zhu, Minpeng Qi, 2013-09-29,
  <draft-zhu-core-groupauth-01.txt>

      The group communication is designed for the communication of Internet
      of Things. A threat is identified in [I-D.ietf-core-groupcomm] that
      current DTLS based approach is unicast oriented and there is no
      supporting on group authentication feature. Unicast oriented
      authentication will causing serious burden when a large number of
      terminal nodes will be involved inevitably. In another aspect, some
      terminals will own the same characteristics, such as owning same
      features, in the same place, working in the same time, etc. With this
      mechanism, all terminals can be authenticated together with little
      signaling and calculation at the same time. It will reduce the
      network burden and save time. This draft describes the security of
      group authentication and an group authentication implementation
      method for the Internet of things.

  "Locating Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Servers in a Dual-Stack IP
  Network", oej, Gonzalo Salgueiro, 2013-07-30,
  <draft-johansson-sip-dual-stack-01.txt>

      RFC 3263 defines how a Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)
      implementation, given a SIP Uniform Resource Identifier (URI), should
      locate the next hop SIP server using Domain Name System (DNS)
      procedures.  The specification repeatedly states that the
      implementation should look up IPv4 or IPv6 addresses.  This is not a
      suitable solution and one that can cause severely degraded user
      experience dual-stack clients, as detailed in the Happy Eyeballs
      specification.  This document specifies amended procedures for dual-
      stack SIP implementations so that they look up both IPv4 and IPv6
      addresses.  This way, the SIP implementation can find the preferred
      network path and protocol with an improved chance of successfully
      reaching the desired service.  This document also clarifies DNS SRV
      usage for single-stack clients.

  "The Extended LDAP Data Interchange Format (EXLDIF)", Christian
  Hollstein, 2013-06-24, <draft-hollstein-extended-ldif-00.txt>

      LDIF (LDAP Data Interchange Format) has been specified in [RFC2849].
      It covers the LDAP operations ADD, MODIFY, DELETE and MODDN.
      This document specifies how other LDAP operations can be represented
      in a text file. Implementations may take such text files to send
      appropriate LDAP requests to a server and process the responses. This
      work was inspired by the need for a general configurable LDAP client
      used in functional and stress testing of LDAP servers.

  "LDAP Queue Length Control", Christian Hollstein, 2013-06-24,
  <draft-hollstein-queuelength-control-00.txt>

      This document specifies a new control. The client can use it to tell
      the server the number of responses it expects for a series of
      requests that were sent in asynchronous mode. This enables the
      server to better pack usually small LDAP result messages into send
      buffers that better match the TCP maximum transfer unit. From this
      a substantial improvement in network ressource utilization, response
      time and throughput is expected.

  "The Embedded LDAP Data Interchange Format (EMLDIF)", Christian
  Hollstein, 2013-06-24, <draft-hollstein-embedded-ldif-00.txt>

      [RFC2849] and [EXLDIF] specify how LDAP operations can be
      represented in a text file. Client implementations may use this
      data to send sequences of requests to a LDAP server. This document
      specifies how values from the server's response can be propagated,
      displayed and used for decision taking in procedural logic. It
      enables EXLDIF with algorithmic behavior. The general method is to
      use EXLDIF embedded in a high level programming language like C/C++,
      Java and others.

  "The Embedded LDAP Data Interchange Format for C (EMLDIF-C)", Christian
  Hollstein, 2013-06-24, <draft-hollstein-embedded-ldif-c-00.txt>

      [EMLDIF] specifies how LDAP operations can be encoded in EXLDIF and
      embedded in high level programming languages. [EMLDIF] is is the
      common basis for language - dependant specifications. This document
      specifies Embedded LDIF for the programming language C. In order to
      make EMLDIF-C source files interoperable across vendor specific
      implementations the specification goes into detail about data
      structures and API.

  "Extending Multimedia Internet KEYing (MIKEY) protocol for use in
  constrained networks", Nouha Oualha, Mounir Kellil, Christophe
  Janneteau, 2013-06-24, <draft-oualha-mikey-ext-00.txt>

      The Multimedia Internet KEYing (MIKEY) protocol is a key management
      standard defined in RFC 3830 for streaming and real-time
      applications. In these applications, the MIKEY protocol may be used
      to provide group key management. With the base protocol, the change
      of one group member triggers the unicast transmission of a new group
      key to all members. In the context of an application delivering
      multicast streams to end-users located at multiple capillary
      networks, the key update messages may scale in proportion to the
      number of nodes; thus creating a substantial overhead. This I-D
      proposes an extension to the MIKEY protocol allowing the management
      of the group as a set of clusters, but with fewer changes to the RFC
      3830 standard. Clustering helps in reducing the communication
      overhead produced during key update by using unicast mode only with
      nodes that belong to clusters where group membership changes

  "A Mechanism for Remote-Triggered DNS Cache Flushes (DNS FLUSH)", Joe
  Abley, 2013-06-24, <draft-jabley-dnsop-dns-flush-00.txt>

      DNS NOTIFY is a mechanism for prompt notification of zone changes
      between DNS authority servers that is usually employed to trigger
      immediate zone transfers.
      
      This document specifies an additional use of DNS NOTIFY to allow DNS
      authority servers to trigger cache flushes on recursive DNS servers.
      Such signalling is authenticated and is intended for use between
      cooperating DNS server operators.

  ""Non Accession to the ITRs Considered Harmful"", Richard Hill,
  2013-06-25, <draft-hill-itr-non-accession-harmful-00.txt>

      One of the treaties administered by the International
      Telecommunications Union is the International Telecommunications
      Regulations (ITRs), whose purpose is to promote the development of
      telecommunication services.  The 1988 version of the ITRs opened the
      way for privatisation, liberalization, and the growth of the Internet
      and mobile networks.  Given the subsequent significant structure and
      technological changes, the ITU membership agreed to meet in 2012 to
      revise the ITRs.  While consensus was found on an overwhelming
      majority of the treaty text, some provisions proved to be
      controversial, leading to a split in the membership and sharp
      criticism of selected provisions.
      
      As a result, some ITU Member States did not sign the treaty.  This
      document analyses that criticism and attempts to place it in context;
      it identifies problems that may arise if states to not accede
      to the treaty, and suggests a way forward, concluding that not
      acceding may have undesirable results for the citizens of
      non-signatory countries and for interoperability in general.

  "Dynamic Allocation of Shared IPv4 Addresses using DHCPv4 over DHCPv6",
  Ian Farrer, 2013-06-25, <draft-farrer-dhc-shared-address-lease-00.txt>

      This memo describes an update to [RFC2131], which enables the dynamic
      leasing of shared IPv4 addresses and layer 4 source ports to DHCPv4
      over DHCPv6 clients [I-D.ietf-dhc-dhcpv4-over-dhcpv6].  Shared
      addressing allows a single IPv4 address to be allocated to multiple,
      active clients simulataneously.  Clients sharing the same address are
      then differentiated by unique L4 source ports.

  "Uniform Resource Name (URN) extension for automatic and manual
  Emergency Services", Roland Jesske, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-jesske-ecrit-ecall-urn-extension-01.txt>

      This document describes a mechanism for extending sos URN's to
      fulfill the emergency call requirements of carriers.

  "NV03 NVA Gap Analysis", Linda Dunbar, Donald Eastlake, 2013-09-20,
  <draft-dunbar-nvo3-nva-gap-analysis-01.txt>

      The intent of the draft is to identify the gaps of existing
      solutions against NVO3's NVE <-> NVA control plane requirement.
      Through the gap analysis, the document provides a basis for
      future works that develop solutions for NVE<->NVA control plane.

  "The Nominating Committee Process: Eligibility", S Moonesamy,
  2013-07-30, <draft-moonesamy-nomcom-eligibility-01.txt>

      RFC 3777 specifies the process by which members of the Internet
      Architecture Board, Internet Engineering Steering Group and IETF
      Administrative Oversight Committee are selected, confirmed, and
      recalled.
      
      This document updates RFC 3777 to allow all contributors to the IETF
      Standards Process to be eligible to serve on NomCom and sign a Recall
      petition.

  "WebRTC JavaScript Object API Rationale", Robin Raymond, Erik Lagerway,
  Inaki Castillo, Roman Shpount, 2013-07-06,
  <draft-raymond-rtcweb-webrtc-js-obj-api-rationale-01.txt>

      This document describes the reasons why a JavaScript Object Model
      approach is a far better solution than using SDP [RFC4566] as a
      surface API for interfacing with WebRTC.  The document outlines the
      issues and pitfalls as well as use cases that are difficult (or
      impossible) with SDP with offer / answer [RFC3264], and explains the
      benefits and goals of an alternative JavaScript object model
      approach.

  "Hybrid Unicast/Multicast DNS-Based Service Discovery Auto-Configuration
  Using OSPFv3", Markus Stenberg, 2013-06-26,
  <draft-stenberg-homenet-dnssdext-hybrid-proxy-ospf-00.txt>

      This document describes how a proxy functioning between Unicast DNS-
      Based Service Discovery and Multicast DNS can be automatically
      configured using automatically configured routing protocol or some
      other network-level state sharing mechanism.  Zero-configuration
      OSPFv3 is used to describe one concrete way to implement this scheme.

  "Trust models of the Web PKI", Inigo Barreira, Bruce Morton, 2013-06-26,
  <draft-barreira-wpkops-trustmodel-00.txt>

      This is one of a set of documents to define the operation of the Web
      PKI.  It describes the currently deployed Web PKI trust model and
      common variants.

  "PCP for IPv6-enabled SIP Deployments", Mohamed Boucadair, 2013-06-26,
  <draft-boucadair-pcp-sip-ipv6-00.txt>

      This document discusses how PCP can be used in IPv6-enabled SIP
      deployments.

  "BGP vector routing.", Keyur Patel, Robert Raszuk, Burjiz Pithawala, Ali
  Sajassi, Jim Uttaro, Luay Jalil, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-patel-raszuk-bgp-vector-routing-01.txt>

      Network architectures have begun to shift from pure destination based
      routing to service aware routing.  Operator requirements in this
      space include forcing traffic through particular service nodes (e.g.
      firewall, NAT) or segments.  This document proposes an enhancement to
      BGP to accommodate these new requirements.
      
      This document proposes a pure control plane solution which allows
      traffic to be routed via an ordered set of transit points (links,
      nodes, or services) on the way to traffic's destination, with no
      change in the forwarding plane.  This approach is in contrast to
      other proposal in this space which provide similar capabilities via
      modifications to the forwarding plane.

  "Usage and applicability of BGP MPLS based Ethernet VPN", Jorge Rabadan,
  Senad Palislamovic, Wim Henderickx, Florin Balus, Keyur Patel, Ali
  Sajassi, 2013-10-21, <draft-rp-l2vpn-evpn-usage-01.txt>

      This document discusses the usage and applicability of BGP MPLS based
      Ethernet VPN (E-VPN) in a simple and fairly common deployment
      scenario. The different E-VPN procedures will be explained on the
      example scenario, analyzing the benefits and trade-offs of each
      option. Along with [E-VPN], this document is intended to provide a
      simplified guide for the deployment of E-VPN in Service Provider
      networks.

  "An Architecture of Service Chaining", Yuanlong Jiang, Li Hongyu,
  2013-06-27, <draft-jiang-service-chaining-arch-00.txt>

      As network virtualization is opening the gate to much more innovative
      services for service providers, service chaining provides a flexible
      way of service provisioning and facilitates their deployment.
      
      This document provides a general abstract architecture for service
      chaining. It is a flexible and scalable architecture which can
      fulfill requirements of service chaining. Some solutions based on
      this architecture are also discussed with their advantages and
      disadvantages. This architecture can be used as a guideline and also
      a criterion for the design of service chaining.

  "Requirements for Service Chaining", Hongyu Li, 2013-06-27,
  <draft-li-service-chaining-requirements-00.txt>

      Chaining some service processing functions may provide services in a
      flexible way.  Such a method is called service chaining.  This
      document presents a list of general requirements service chaining
      should support.  Solutions of service chaining are not presented in
      this document.

  "IPsec sequence number integrity check value", Jifei Song, Tina Tsou,
  Vishwas Manral, 2013-07-08, <draft-song-ipsecme-seq-icv-01.txt>

      This document specifies an IPsec AH and ESP sequence number
      validation scheme, which is complementary to the existing ICV
      mechanism and anti-replay mechanism of AH and ESP in defense against
      DOS attack.  It is an optional feature negotiable through IKE, for
      this feature to be negotiated, both sender and receiver must
      implement it.  If any party doesn't support it, then this feature
      should be excluded from negotiation.  The rationale for such a scheme
      is discussed first; then requirements and guidelines for design of
      the scheme are laid out.  There can be various ways to implement the
      scheme, some reference designs are discussed to set the base for
      effort of identifying best practice and eventually establishing a
      standard on the subject.

  "Use Case for Large Scale Measurements Used in Data Collection of
  Network Management Systems", Rachel Huang, 2013-06-28,
  <draft-huang-lmap-data-collection-use-case-00.txt>

      This document augments the use cases of large scale measurement of
      broadband performance (LMAP). It discusses measurements for a common
      platform which works for different usages including troubleshooting,
      performance understanding, quality evaluation and network adjusting.

  "CoAp Management Interfaces", Peter Van der Stok, Bert Greevenbosch,
  2013-10-17, <draft-vanderstok-core-comi-01.txt,.pdf>

      The draft describes an interface based on CoAP to manage constrained
      devices via MIBs.  The proposed integration of CoAP with SNMP reduces
      the code- and application development complexity by accessing MIBs
      via a standard CoAP server.  The payload of the MIB request is JSON,
      CBOR or XML (EXI).  The mapping from SMI to XML, JSON and CBOR is
      specified.
      
      Note
      
      Discussion and suggestions for improvement are requested, and should
      be sent to core@ietf.org.

  "RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Extended Report (XR) Block for MPEG2
  Transport Stream (TS) Program Specific Information (PSI) dependent
  Decodability Statistics Metrics reporting", Jiangang Tong, Claire Bi,
  Roni Even, Qin Wu, Rachel Huang, 2013-10-15,
  <draft-bi-xrblock-rtcp-xr-psi-dep-decodability-02.txt>

      An MPEG2 Transport Stream (TS) is a standard container format used in
      the transmission and storage of multimedia data.  Unicast/Multicast
      MPEG2 TS over RTP is widely deployed in IPTV systems.  This document
      defines an RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Extended Report (XR) Block
      that allows the reporting of MPEG2 TS decodability statistics metrics
      related to transmissions of MPEG2 TS over RTP.  The metrics specified
      in the RTCP XR Block are dependent on Program specific information
      carried in MPEG TS.

  "Segment Routing Architecture", Clarence Filsfils, Stefano Previdi,
  Ahmed Bashandy, Bruno Decraene, Stephane Litkowski, Martin Horneffer,
  Igor Milojevic, Rob Shakir, Saku Ytti, Wim Henderickx, Jeff Tantsura,
  Edward Crabbe, 2013-10-21, <draft-filsfils-rtgwg-segment-routing-01.txt>

      Segment Routing (SR) leverages the source routing paradigm.  A node
      steers a packet through a controlled set of instructions, called
      segments, by prepending the packet with an SR header.  A segment can
      represent any instruction, topological or service-based.  A segment
      can have a local semantic to an SR node or global within an SR
      domain.  SR allows to enforce a flow through any topological path and
      service chain while maintaining per-flow state only at the ingress
      node to the SR domain.
      
      The Segment Routing architecture can be directly applied to the MPLS
      dataplane with no change on the forwarding plane.  IGP-based segments
      require minor extension to the existing link-state routing protocols.
      Segment Routing can also be applied to IPv6 with a new type of
      routing extension header.

  "Segment Routing Use Cases", Clarence Filsfils, Pierre Francois, Stefano
  Previdi, Bruno Decraene, Stephane Litkowski, Martin Horneffer, Igor
  Milojevic, Rob Shakir, Saku Ytti, Wim Henderickx, Jeff Tantsura,
  Sriganesh Kini, Edward Crabbe, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-filsfils-rtgwg-segment-routing-use-cases-02.txt>

      Segment Routing (SR) leverages the source routing and tunneling
      paradigms.  A node steers a packet through a controlled set of
      instructions, called segments, by prepending the packet with an SR
      header.  A segment can represent any instruction, topological or
      service-based.  SR allows to enforce a flow through any topological
      path and service chain while maintaining per-flow state only at the
      ingress node of the SR domain.
      
      The Segment Routing architecture can be directly applied to the MPLS
      dataplane with no change on the forwarding plane.  It requires minor
      extension to the existing link-state routing protocols.  Segment
      Routing can also be applied to IPv6 with a new type of routing
      extension header.

  "IS-IS Extensions for Segment Routing", Stefano Previdi, Clarence
  Filsfils, Ahmed Bashandy, Hannes Gredler, Stephane Litkowski,
  2013-10-21, <draft-previdi-isis-segment-routing-extensions-04.txt>

      Segment Routing (SR) allows for a flexible definition of end-to-end
      paths within IGP topologies by encoding paths as sequences of
      topological sub-paths, called "segments".  These segments are
      advertised by the link-state routing protocols (IS-IS and OSPF).
      
      This draft describes the necessary IS-IS extensions that need to be
      introduced for Segment Routing.

  "OSPF Extensions for Segment Routing", Peter Psenak, Stefano Previdi,
  Clarence Filsfils, Hannes Gredler, Rob Shakir, Wim Henderickx,
  2013-10-18, <draft-psenak-ospf-segment-routing-extensions-03.txt>

      Segment Routing (SR) allows for a flexible definition of end-to-end
      paths within IGP topologies by encoding paths as sequences of
      topological sub-paths, called "segments".  These segments are
      advertised by the link-state routing protocols (IS-IS and OSPF).
      
      This draft describes the necessary OSPF extensions that need to be
      introduced for Segment Routing.

  "The Session Description Protocol (SDP) Application Token Attribute",
  Roni Even, Jonathan Lennox, Qin Wu, 2013-09-15,
  <draft-even-mmusic-application-token-01.txt>

      The RTP fixed header includes the payload type number and the SSRC
      values of the RTP stream.  RTP defines how to de-multiplex streams
      within an RTP session, but in some use cases applications need
      further identifiers in order to identify the application semantics
      associated with particular streams within the session.
      
      This document defines a mechanism to provide the mapping between the
      SSRCs of RTP streams and the application semantics by defining
      extensions to RTP and RTCP messages.

  "AS112 Redirection using DNAME", Joe Abley, Brian Dickson, Warren
  Kumari, George Michaelson, 2013-10-12,
  <draft-jabley-dnsop-as112-dname-01.txt>

      Many sites connected to the Internet make use of IPv4 addresses that
      are not globally unique.  Examples are the addresses designated in
      RFC 1918 for private use within individual sites.
      
      Devices in such environments may occasionally originate Domain Name
      System (DNS) queries (so-called "reverse lookups") corresponding to
      those private-use addresses.  Since the addresses concerned have only
      local significance, it is good practice for site administrators to
      ensure that such queries are answered locally.  However, it is not
      uncommon for such queries to follow the normal delegation path in the
      public DNS instead of being answered within the site.
      
      It is not possible for public DNS servers to give useful answers to
      such queries.  In addition, due to the wide deployment of private-use
      addresses and the continuing growth of the Internet, the volume of
      such queries is large and growing.  The AS112 project aims to provide
      a distributed sink for such queries in order to reduce the load on
      the IN-ADDR.ARPA authoritative servers.  The AS112 project is named
      after the Autonomous System Number (ASN) that was assigned to it.
      
      The AS112 project does not accommodate the addition and removal of
      DNS zones elegantly.  Since additional zones of definitively local
      significance are known to exist, this presents a problem.  This
      document describes modifications to the deployment and use of AS112
      infrastructure that will allow zones to be added and dropped much
      more easily.

  "Network Configuration Negotiation Problem Statement and Requirements",
  Sheng Jiang, Yuanbin Yin, Brian Carpenter, 2013-10-07,
  <draft-jiang-config-negotiation-ps-01.txt>

      This document describes a problem statement and general requirements
      for distributed autonomous configuration of multiple aspects of
      networks, in particular carrier networks.  The basic model is that
      network elements need to negotiate configuration settings with each
      other to meet overall goals.  The document describes a generic
      negotiation behavior model.  The document also reviews whether
      existing management and configuration protocols may be suitable for
      autonomic networks.

  "IPv6 Site Renumbering Operational Guidelines", Bing Liu, 2013-06-29,
  <draft-liu-opsarea-ipv6-renumbering-guidelines-00.txt>

      This document gives some basic operational guidelines for an IPv6
      site renumbering event. This document considers an renumbering event
      as several basic operational stages as numbering, adding a new prefix,
      and deprecating old prefix(es) and guidelines are given according to
      each stage. Besides the general guidelines, this document also gives
      some considerations on some specific operations such as ND/DHCPv6
      collaboration, DHCPv6 reconfiguration, secure dynamic DNS update and
      multicast.

  "Secure DHCPv6 with Public Key", Sheng Jiang, Sean Shen, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-jiang-dhc-sedhcpv6-02.txt>

      The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6 (DHCPv6) enables
      DHCPv6 servers to pass configuration parameters.  It offers
      configuration flexibility.  If not secured, DHCPv6 is vulnerable to
      various attacks, particularly spoofing attacks.  This document
      analyzes the security issues of DHCPv6 and specifies a Secure DHCPv6
      mechanism for communication between DHCPv6 client and server.  This
      mechanism is based on public/private key pairs.  The authority of the
      sender may depend on either pre-configuration mechanism or Public Key
      Infrastructure.

  "Running Multiple IPv6 Prefixes", Bing Liu, Sheng Jiang, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-liu-running-multiple-prefixes-01.txt>

      This document introduces that multiple prefixes in one network/host
      might be common in IPv6, and describes several multiple prefixes use
      cases that might be beneficial to the network. Then some operational
      considerations and current gaps to support multiple prefixes
      operations are described.

  "The WebSocket Protocol as a Transport for the Remote Framebuffer
  Protocol (RFB)", Pierre Garnero, 2013-06-29,
  <draft-garnero-rfb-websocket-00.txt>

      The WebSocket protocol enables two-way realtime communication between
      clients and servers in web-based applications.  This document
      specifies a WebSocket sub-protocol as a reliable transport mechanism
      between RFB (Remote Framebuffer Protocol) entities to enable usage of
      RFB in web-oriented deployments.

  "Information Elements for IPFIX Metering Process Location", Olivier
  Festor, Abdelkader Lahmadi, Rick Hofstede, Aiko Pras, 2013-07-14,
  <draft-festor-ipfix-metering-process-location-01.txt>

      This document defines a set of Information Elements for the IP Flow
      Information Export (IPFIX) protocol to include location information
      of any device (both fixed and mobile) that acts as an IPFIX Flow
      Exporter. The specified Information Elements support both geodetic
      and civic location data.

  "Extension Mechanism for the Babel Routing Protocol", Juliusz
  Chroboczek, 2013-06-30,
  <draft-chroboczek-babel-extension-mechanism-00.txt>

      This document defines the encoding of extensions to the Babel routing
      protocol [BABEL].

  "The Use of Big Labels for BGP/MPLS IP VPN", Renwei Li, Katherine Zhao,
  Walter Wu, 2013-06-30, <draft-renwei-l3vpn-big-label-00.txt>

      This document describes big labels in L3VPN.

  "Encoding of Big Labels in MPLS Label Stacks", Renwei Li, Ming Li,
  2013-06-30, <draft-renwei-mpls-big-label-00.txt>

      This document specifies encoding and encapsulation methods for MPLS
      big labels.  Big labels are required for accessing virtual networks
      in data centers by using, for example, BGP/MPLS IP VPNs.  Data center
      virtualization encapsulation methods and protocols such as VXLAN,
      NVGRE and NVO3 are being standardized to support a few millions of
      virtual networks, but the currently label format can support up to
      one million of labels.  When the BGP/MPLS IP VPN method, for example,
      is used by an enterprise/customer to access its corresponding virtual
      networks, more than one million of labels are required to map VPN
      labels and Virtual Network Identifiers.

  "Carrying Big Labels in BGP-4", Renwei Li, Lin Han, 2013-06-30,
  <draft-renwei-mpls-bgp-big-label-00.txt>

      When BGP is used to distribute a particular route, it can also be
      used to distribute an MPLS label which is mapped to that route.  In
      some cases, for example, when L3VPN is used to access and connect to
      virtual networks in data centers, there may be 16 millions of VPN
      instances on a router.  In order to map MPLS labels to VPN instances,
      big labels are required.  This document specifies the method to carry
      and distribute such big labels by piggybacking the big label mapping
      information for an IP route in the BGP Update message that is used to
      distribute the route itself.

  "IPv4-IPv6 Multicast Address Dynamic Conversion", Yalin Cao, Cui Wang,
  Wei Meng, Bhumip Khasnabish, 2013-06-30,
  <draft-tsao-mboned-v4v6mcast-dynamic-conversion-00.txt>

      This draft describes a mechanism for stateless conversion of IPv4
      multicast address to IPv6 multicast address and vice versa,using
      different rules.  These rules can be used in both IPv4-IPv6
      translation or encapsulation.  This solution can be used in any
      scenarios describe in [RFC6144].

  "Minion - Service Model and Conceptual API", Jana, Stuart Cheshire, Josh
  Graessley, 2013-10-21, <draft-iyengar-minion-concept-02.txt>

      Minion uses TCP-format packets on-the-wire, to provide full
      compatibility with existing NATs, Firewalls, and similar middleboxes,
      but provides a richer set of facilities to the application.  Minion's
      richer facilities include a message-oriented API rather than TCP's
      unstructured byte-stream service model, multiplexing of multiple
      messages (or message streams) on a single connection, interleaving of
      multiplexed messages (to eliminate head-of-line blocking), message
      cancellation, request/reply support, ordered and unordered messages,
      superseding messages, chained messages, multiple priority levels with
      byte-granularity preemption, and DTLS Security.  Minion can be
      implemented entirely as a user-level library, without waiting for any
      special support from OS vendors, and provides immediate benefits to
      application developers.  Additionally, Minion is able to take
      advantage of some simple kernel extensions to provide enhanced
      services that go beyond what is possible with traditional TCP.  These
      kernel extensions are optional, and even without them, Minion offers
      worthwhile benefits to application developers.

  "Minion - Wire Protocol", Jana, Stuart Cheshire, Josh Graessley,
  2013-10-21, <draft-iyengar-minion-protocol-02.txt>

      Minion uses TCP-format packets on-the-wire, for compatibility with
      existing NATs, Firewalls, and similar middleboxes, but provides a
      richer set of facilities to the application, as described in the
      Minion Service Model document.  This document specifies the details
      of the on-the-wire protocol used to provide those services.

  "Framework for accessing IPv6 content for IPv4-only clients", Branimir
  Rajtar, Ian Farrer, Vizdal Ales, Xing Li, Congxiao Bao, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-rfvlb-behave-v6-content-for-v4-clients-01.txt>

      With the expansion of IPv6 usage and content available on IPv6, it is
      important that clients with legacy (i.e. non IPv6-capable) operating
      systems are able to access such content.
      
      This document describes a method for achieving this, including how
      the method could be implemented in real-world scenarios.

  "Segment Routing Fast Reroute", Pierre Francois, Clarence Filsfils,
  Ahmed Bashandy, Stefano Previdi, Bruno Decraene, 2013-07-01,
  <draft-francois-sr-frr-00.txt>

      This document presents a Fast Reroute approach aimed at providing
      link protection of nodal and adjacency segments to the Segment
      Routing framework.  This FRR behavior builds on proven IP-FRR
      concepts being LFAs, remote LFAs (RLFA), and remote LFAs with
      directed forwarding (DLFA).  We describe their implementation using
      SR segments.  We then analyze the benefits brought by Segment Routing
      to the scalability of such IP-FRR approaches.

  "Mutual Authentication Protocol for HTTP: KAM3-based Cryptographic
  Algorithms", Yutaka Oiwa, Hajime Watanabe, Hiromitsu Takagi, Tatsuya
  Hayashi, Yuichi Ioku, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-oiwa-httpauth-mutual-algo-01.txt,.ps,.pdf>

      This document specifies some cryptographic algorithms which will be
      used for the Mutual user authentication method for the Hyper-text
      Transport Protocol (HTTP).

  "DECoupled Application Data Enroute (DECADE)", Richard Alimi, Akbar
  Rahman, Dirk Kutscher, Yang Yang, Haibin Song, Kostas Pentikousis,
  2013-09-27, <draft-alimi-decade-05.txt>

      Content distribution applications, such as those those employing
      peer-to-peer (P2P) technologies, are widely used on the Internet and
      make up a large portion of the traffic in many networks.  Often,
      however, content distribution applications use network resources in a
      counter-productive manner.  One way to improve efficiency is to
      introduce storage capabilities within the network and enable
      cooperation between end-host and in-network content distribution
      mechanisms.  This is the capability provided by a DECADE system,
      which is introduced in this document.  DECADE enables applications to
      take advantage of in-network storage when distributing data objects
      as opposed to using solely end-to-end resources.  This document
      presents the underlying principles and key functionalities of such a
      system and illustrates operation through a set of examples.

  "Relative JSON Pointers", Geraint Luff, 2013-07-01,
  <draft-luff-relative-json-pointer-00.txt>

      JSON Pointer is a syntax for specifying locations in a JSON document,
      starting from the document root.  This document defines an extension
      to the JSON Pointer syntax, allowing relative locations from within
      the document.

  "Gap Analysis for Operating IPv6-only MPLS Networks", Wesley George,
  Carlos Pignataro, Rajiv Asati, Kamran Raza, Ron Bonica, Rajiv Papneja,
  Dhruv Dhody, Vishwas Manral, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-george-mpls-ipv6-only-gap-02.txt>

      This document reviews the MPLS protocol suite in the context of IPv6
      and identifies gaps that must be addressed in order to allow MPLS-
      related protocols and applications to be used with IPv6-only
      networks.  This document is not intended to highlight a particular
      vendor's implementation (or lack thereof) in the context of IPv6-only
      MPLS functionality, but rather to focus on gaps in the standards
      defining the MPLS suite.

  "Highly Automated Method for Maintaining Expiring Records", Warren
  Kumari, Roy Arends, Suzanne Woolf, 2013-07-01,
  <draft-wkumari-dnsop-hammer-00.txt>

      This document describes a simple DNS cache optimization which keeps
      the most popular records in the DNS cache.

  "Encapsulation of TCP and other Transport Protocols over UDP", Stuart
  Cheshire, Josh Graessley, Rory McGuire, 2013-07-01,
  <draft-cheshire-tcp-over-udp-00.txt>

      Encapsulation of TCP and other transport protocols over UDP enables
      use of UDP-based NAT traversal techniques with other transport
      protocols.

  "CoAP Implementation Guidance", Matthias Kovatsch, Olaf Bergmann, Esko
  Dijk, Xuan He, Carsten Bormann, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-kovatsch-lwig-coap-01.txt>

      The Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) is designed for resource-
      constrained nodes and networks, e.g., sensor nodes in a low-power
      lossy network (LLN).  Yet to implement this Internet protocol on
      Class 1 devices (i.e., ~ 10 KiB of RAM and ~ 100 KiB of ROM) also
      lightweight implementation techniques are necessary.  This document
      provides lessons learned from implementing CoAP for tiny, battery-
      operated networked embedded systems.  The guidelines for transmission
      state management and developer APIs can also help with the
      implementation of CoAP for less constrained nodes.

  "Hypertext Transfer Protocol version 2.0", Mike Belshe, Roberto Peon,
  Martin Thomson, Alexey Melnikov, 2013-07-03,
  <draft-unicorn-httpbis-http2-01.txt>

      This specification describes an optimized expression of the syntax of
      the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP).  The HTTP/2.0 encapsulation
      enables more efficient use of network resources and reduced
      perception of latency by allowing header field compression and
      multiple concurrent messages on the same connection.  It also
      introduces unsolicited push of representations from servers to
      clients.
      
      This document is an alternative to, but does not obsolete the
      HTTP/1.1 message format or protocol.  HTTP's existing semantics
      remain unchanged.
      
      This version of the draft has been marked for implementation.
      Interoperability testing will occur in the HTTP/2.0 interim in
      Hamburg, DE, starting 2013-08-05.

  "Terminology for Benchmarking LDP Data Plane Convergence", Bhavani
  Parise, Rajiv Papneja, 2013-07-01,
  <draft-parise-ldp-convergence-term-00.txt>

      This document defines new terms for benchmarking of LDP convergence.
      These terms are to be used in future methodology documents for
      benchmarking LDP Convergence.  Existing BMWG terminology documents
      such as IGP Convergence Benchmarking [RFC 6412] provide useful terms
      for LDP Convergence benchmarking.  These terms are discussed in this
      document.  Applicable terminology for MPLS and LDP defined in MPLS WG
      RFCs [RFC 3031] and [RFC 5036] are also discussed.

  "Meta-data Attribute signaLling with ICE", Reinaldo Penno, Paal-Erik
  Martinsen, Dan Wing, Anca Zamfir, 2013-07-02,
  <draft-martinsen-mmusic-malice-00.txt>

      It can be useful for applications to provide flow metadata
      information to on-path devices to influence flow treatment in the
      network.  Provided that the network is able to provide useful
      feedback, this can also influence path selection if an application
      have multiple flow paths to choose from.
      
      This draft describes how this can be achieved by adding metadata to
      the STUN packets sent during the ICE connectivity checks or a
      slightly modified version of the keep-alive mechanism.  Devices on
      the media path can use the metadata information to prioritize the
      flow, perform traffic engineering, or provide network analytics and
      notifications as requested by the endpoints.  On-path devices can
      append or modify the existing metadata information in the STUN/ICE
      messages to enable feedback to other on-path devices or the
      applications in both ends of the media session.
      
      This document describes a framework mechanism for how such metadata
      can be transported by STUN when ICE is in use and it covers the
      endpoint and on path device processing.  The functionality described
      here is referred to as MALICE.

  "Simple Failover Mechanism for Lightweight 4over6", Yiu Lee, Qiong, Cong
  Liu, 2013-07-15, <draft-lee-softwire-lw4over6-failover-01.txt>

      This memo specifies a simple mechanism for Lightweight AFTR (lwAFTR)
      to notify Lightweight B4 (lwB4) to initiate the recreation of the
      binding when lwAFTR does not have the subscriber mapping in the
      mapping table.  This often happens at failover the backup lwAFTR does
      not have the subscriber mapping information to process the packets
      between lwB4 and external IPv4 host.

  "Multicast Support for Mapping of Address and Port Protocol", Behcet
  Sarikaya, 2013-07-02, <draft-sarikaya-softwire-map-multicast-00.txt>

      This memo specifies MAP-E's multicast component so that IPv4 hosts
      can receive multicast data from IPv4 servers over an IPv6 network.
      In the encapsulation solution for encapsulation variant of Mapping of
      Address and Port (MAP), MAP-E, IGMP Proxy at the MAP-E Customer Edge
      router uses IPv4-in-IPv6 tunnel established by MAP-E to exchange IGMP
      messages to establish multicast state at MAP-E Border Relay so that
      MAP-E Border Relay can tunnel IPv4 multicast data to IPv4 hosts
      connected to MAP-E Customer Edge device.  In the Translation
      Multicast solution for the translation variant of MAP, MAP-T and 4rd,
      IGMP messages are translated into MLD messages at the CE router which
      is IGMP/MLD Proxy and sent to the network in IPv6.  MAP-T/4rd Border
      Relay does the reverse translation and joins IPv4 multicast group for
      MAP-T/4rd hosts.  Border Relay as multicast router receives IPv4
      multicast data and translates the packet into IPv6 multicast data and
      sends downstream on the multicast tree.  Member CEs receive multicast
      data, translate it back to IPv4 and transmit to the hosts.

  "End-to-end Data Integrity For NFSv4", Chuck Lever, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-cel-nfsv4-end2end-data-protection-01.txt,.ps,.pdf>

      End-to-end data integrity protection provides a strong guarantee that
      data an application reads from durable storage is exactly the same
      data it wrote previously to durable storage.  This document specifies
      possible additions to the NFSv4 protocol enabling it to convey end-
      to-end data integrity information between client and server.

  "Support for Icalendar Relationships", Mike Douglass, 2013-09-25,
  <draft-douglass-ical-relations-01.txt,.pdf>

      This specification updates RELATED-TO and introduces new iCalendar
      properties LINK and RELATED-ID to allow better linking and grouping
      of iCalendar components and related data.

  "Mitigation against IPv6 Router Advertisements flooding", S Moonesamy,
  2013-07-02, <draft-moonesamy-ra-flood-limit-00.txt>

      An IPv6 Router Advertisements flooding attack can cause a node to
      consume all CPU resources available making the system unusable and
      unresponsive. This document recommends some configurable variables as
      a mitigation against an IPv6 Router Advertisements flooding attack.

  "Configuration must not be carried by the routing protocol", Juliusz
  Chroboczek, 2013-07-02,
  <draft-chroboczek-homenet-configuration-separate-00.txt>

      Where I argue that configuration information must be carried by a
      protocol separate from the routing protocol.

  "Efficient Chunk Availability Compression for PPSP", Deng Lingli, Jin
  Peng, Yunfei Zhang, Rachel Huang, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-deng-ppsp-bfbitmap-03.txt>

      Bloom filters are proposed to be used in compressing chunk
      availability information, periodically exchanged between peers and
      the tracker through PPSP-TP and PPSPP protocols, to reduce relevant
      cost and enhance scalability.

  "Terminology for Benchmarking LDP Data Plane Convergence", Bhavani
  Parise, Rajiv Papneja, 2013-07-02,
  <draft-parise-bmwg-ldp-convergence-term-00.txt>

      This document defines new terms for benchmarking of LDP convergence.
      These terms are to be used in future methodology documents for
      benchmarking LDP Convergence.  Existing BMWG terminology documents
      such as IGP Convergence Benchmarking [RFC 6412] provide useful terms
      for LDP Convergence benchmarking.  These terms are discussed in this
      document.  Applicable terminology for MPLS and LDP defined in MPLS WG
      RFCs [RFC 3031] and [RFC 5036] are also discussed.

  "Revealing hosts sharing an IP address using ICMP Echo Request", Andrew
  Yourtchenko, 2013-07-03, <draft-yourtchenko-fmc-nat-reveal-ping-00.txt>

      When an IP address is shared among several subscribers -- with a NAT
      or with an application-level proxy -- it is impossible for the server
      to differentiate between different clients.  Such differentiation is
      valuable in several scenarios.  This memo proposes a technique to
      differentiate TCP and UDP clients sharing an IP address.  The
      proposed method uses an ICMP Echo Request packet, which allows for
      more information about the user mapping to be transmitted than in the
      case of using the TCP option - and allows the use with UDP and other
      protocols.

  "The NetInf Bluetooth Convergence Layer", Linus Sunde, 2013-07-03,
  <draft-sunde-netinf-protocol-bluetooth-00.txt>

      This document defines a Network of Information (NetInf) convergence
      layer intended to be used over some Bluetooth protocol providing
      reliable transmission.  A convergence layer handles the transport of
      NetInf requests and responses.  In this convergence layer the common
      NetInf messages are defined using JavaScript Object Notation (JSON)
      and Named Data Object (NDO) octet parts, both using length prefixes.
      While the convergence layer is intended to be used over Bluetooth,
      any underlying protocol providing reliable transmission could
      potentially be used.

  "SDN State Reduction", Peter Ashwood-Smith, Mourad Soliman, Tao Wan,
  2013-07-03, <draft-ashwood-sdnrg-state-reduction-00.txt>

      This document makes the argument that to support the centralized
      control of a substantial number of forwarding devices (as Software
      Defined Networking (SDN) proposes) that the scale, speed, cost and
      general quality of such a solution will be improved by reducing
      the state needed to be distributed into the network of devices by
      the controller(s). To this end we re-visit forms of Source Routing
      (SR), in particular Strict Link Source Routing (SLSR) and suggest
      that light weight SLSR could allow substantial reduction in
      controller burden while potentially reducing the costs/complexity
      on forwarding devices. We discuss some simulation results that
      demonstrate these advantages and how the advantages grow
      substantially as the network diameter grows. We also look at
      various implementation possibilities including existing IPV4, V6,
      MPLS, new/modified MPLS vs. something brand new that could
      possibly be implemented with new SDN technology like Protocol
      Oblivious Forwarding-POF.

  "Energy Aware Control Approach for QoS in heterogeneous packet access
  networks", DH, Nico Bayer, Christoph Lange, 2013-07-12,
  <draft-vonhugo-eacp-hetnet-01.txt>

      This document describes an approach to enhance user perceived service
      quality by control protocols following potential network performance
      impairments in case of energy aware network operation.

  "Tunnel Congestion Feedback", Xinpeng Wei, Lei Zhu, 2013-07-03,
  <draft-wei-tsvwg-tunnel-congestion-feedback-00.txt>

      This document describes a mechanism to calculate congestion of a
      tunnel segment based on RFC 6040 recommendations, and a feedback
      protocol by which to send the measured congestion of the tunnel from
      egress to ingress router. A basic  model for measuring tunnel
      congestion and feedback is described, and a protocol for carrying the
      feedback data is outlined.

  "Draft and Release using Internet Email", Alexey Melnikov, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-melnikov-mmhs-authorizing-users-03.txt>

      This document describes a procedure for when an Military Message
      Handling System (MMHS) message is composed by one user and is only
      released to the mail transfer system when one or more authorizing
      users authorize release of the message by adding the MMHS-
      Authorizing-Users header field.  The resulting message can be
      optionally countersigned, allowing recipients to verify both the
      original signature (if any) and countersignatures.

  "A Mechanism for ECN Path Probing and Fallback", Mirja Kuehlewind, Brian
  Trammell, 2013-09-10, <draft-kuehlewind-tcpm-ecn-fallback-01.txt>

      Explicit Congestion Notification (ECN) is a TCP/IP extension that is
      widely implemented but hardly used due to the perceived unusablilty
      of ECN on many paths through the Internet caused by ECN-ignorant
      routers and middleboxes.  This document specifies an ECN probing and
      fall-back mechanism in case ECN has be successfully negotiated
      between two connection endpoints, but might not be usable on the
      path.

  "Source-specific Routing", Matthieu Boutier, Juliusz Chroboczek,
  2013-07-03, <draft-boutier-homenet-source-specific-routing-00.txt>

      Source-specific routing is a generalisation of next-hop routing in
      which the routing decision is made depending on a packet's source
      address in addition to the destination.  We describe the motivation
      for source-specific routing and our experiences with an experimental
      extension of the Babel routing protocol that implements source-
      specific routing.

  "PCP Flowdata Option", Dan Wing, Reinaldo Penno, Tirumaleswar Reddy,
  2013-07-03, <draft-wing-pcp-flowdata-00.txt>

      This document defines a mechanism for a host to signal flow
      characteristics to the network, and the network to signal its ability
      to accommodate that flow back to the host.  The mechanism defines a
      new PCP option for the existing MAP and PEER opcodes.

  "Corresponding Network Homing", Alper Yegin, Kisuk Kweon, Jinsung Lee,
  Jungshin Park, 2013-10-21, <draft-yegin-dmm-cnet-homing-01.txt>

      Mobile IP protocols provide IP session continuity to Mobile Nodes at
      the expense of creating triangular routes via a centralized Home
      Agent.  Increased latency and network resource use, introduction of a
      single point of failure and a network choke point are among the
      undesirable side effects of the current protocols.  This document
      describes an alternative approach where the Mobile Node makes use of
      dynamically-assigned Home Agent that is located close to the
      Corresponding Node.

  "On Demand Mobility Management", Alper Yegin, Kisuk Kweon, Jinsung Lee,
  Jungshin Park, 2013-07-03, <draft-yegin-dmm-ondemand-mobility-00.txt>

      Applications differ with respect to whether they need IP session
      continuity and/or IP address reachability.  The network providing the
      same type of service to any mobile host and any application running
      on the host yields inefficiencies.  This document describes a
      solution for taking the application needs into account in selectively
      providing IP session continuity and IP address reachability on a per-
      socket basis.

  "Extension of the MLD proxy functionality to support multiple upstream
  interfaces", Luis Contreras, Carlos Bernardos, Juan-Carlos Ziga,
  2013-07-03, <draft-contreras-pim-multiple-upstreams-00.txt>

      This document presents different scenarios of applicability for an
      MLD proxy running more than one upstream interface.  Since those
      scenarios impose different requirements on the MLD proxy with
      multiple upstream interfaces, it is important to ensure that the
      proxy functionality addresses all of them for compatibility.
      
      The purpose of this document is to define the requirements in an MLD
      proxy with multiple interfaces covering a variety of applicability
      scenarios, and to specify the proxy functionality to satisfy all of
      them.

  "A Framework for Signaling Flow Characteristics between Applications and
  the Network", Toerless Eckert, Reinaldo Penno, Amine Choukir, Charles
  Eckel, 2013-10-21, <draft-eckert-intarea-flow-metadata-framework-02.txt>

      This document provides a framework for communicating information
      elements (a.k.a. metadata) in a consistent manner between
      applications and the network to provide better visibility of
      application flows, thereby enabling differentiated treatment of those
      flows.  These information elements can be conveyed using various
      signaling protocols, including PCP, RSVP, and STUN.

  "A recommendation for RRC agreement in 3rd Generation Partnership
  Project(3GPP) standard", Sha Zhang, Jie Huang, 2013-07-03,
  <draft-zhang-rrc-3gpp-recommend-00.txt>

      This document contains a recommendation to the Third Generation
      Partnership Project(3GPP) community regarding the RRC agreement.
      Specifically, this document RECOMMENDS that a network credential MUST
      be attributed to each user, and the user identity MUST be verified in
      the RRC connection establishment phase.

  "Considerations for ALTO with network-deployed P2P caches", Deng Lingli,
  Wei Chen, Qiuchao Yi, Yan Zhang, 2013-07-31,
  <draft-deng-alto-p2pcache-02.txt>

      Uploading from peers located in a public WLAN hotspot has been
      reported to severely impact other current users' experiences, and
      raised caution from the operator's side who are willing to
      increasingly participate in building public WLAN facilities to
      offload the explosive mobile data traffic from cellular networks.
      Cooperation between the network operator and the P2P service
      providers in form of intra-domain P2P caches is expected to be an
      effective mechanism to solve the problem.  This draft introduces
      considerations on ALTO deployment in terms of P2P caches and
      discusses potential extensions to the ALTO protocol to standardize
      this mutual cooperation.

  "A privacy protection scheme for AKA agreement in 3rd Generation
  Partnership Project(3GPP) standard", Sha Zhang, Jie Huang, 2013-07-03,
  <draft-zhang-aka-privacy-3gpp-00.txt>

      This document contains a privacy protection scheme for the AKA
      agreement in the 3GPP standards.  Specifically, this document
      RECOMMENDS that each user owns a encryption key updated in real time,
      with which to encrypt the user identity.  Comparing with the
      asymmetric encryption and alias assignment, the symmetric encryption
      scheme proposed in this document not only reduce the computation
      burden, but also prevent the legal user from being located and
      tracked.

  "Recording VoiceXML sessions with SIPREC", Henry Lum, 2013-07-03,
  <draft-lum-siprec-vxml-00.txt>

      This document addresses the use case of recording Interactive Voice
      Response (IVR) VoiceXML applications using the SIPREC protocol.  This
      document also provides a potential solution for capturing additional
      information about the call flow within the VoiceXML application from
      a recording perspective.

  "DTLS-based Security with two-way Authentication for IoT", Corinna
  Schmitt, Burkhard Stiller, Thomas Kothmayr, Wen Hu, 2013-10-10,
  <draft-schmitt-two-way-authentication-for-iot-01.txt>

      In this draft the first key idea for a full two-way authentication
      security scheme for the Internet of Things (IoT) based on existing
      Internet standards, specifically the Datagram Transport Layer
      Security (DTLS) protocol, is introduced.  By relying on an
      established standard, existing implementations, engineering
      techniques, and security infrastructure can be reused, which enables
      an easy security uptake.  The proposed security scheme is, therefore,
      based on RSA, the most widely used public key cryptography algorithm.
      It is designed to work over standard communication stacks that offer
      UDP/IPv6 networking for Low power Wireless Personal Area Networks
      (6LoWPANs).

  "Measuring the Effects of Happy Eyeballs", Vaibhav Bajpai, Jrgen
  Schnwlder, 2013-07-14, <draft-bajpai-happy-01.txt>

      The IETF has developed solutions that promote a healthy IPv4 and IPv6
      co-existence.  The happy eyeballs algorithm for instance, provides
      recommendations to application developers to help prevent bad user
      experience in situations where IPv6 connectivity is broken.  This
      document describes a metric used to measure the effects of the happy
      eyeballs algorithm.  The insights uncovered by analysing the data
      from multiple locations is discussed.

  "Use cases for operating networks in the overlay model context", Daniele
  Ceccarelli, Oscar de Dios, Fatai Zhang, Xian Zhang, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ceccadedios-ccamp-overlay-use-cases-03.txt>

      This document defines a set of use cases for operating networks in
      the overlay model context through the Generalized Multiprotocol Label
      Switching (GMPLS) overlay interfaces.

  "Seamless Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (S-BFD) Alert Discriminator
  and BFD Path Tracing", Nobo Akiya, Carlos Pignataro, David Ward,
  2013-07-04, <draft-akiya-bfd-seamless-alert-discrim-00.txt,.pdf>

      This specification defines a concept of alert discriminator which
      operates over Seamless Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (S-BFD).
      New diagnostic codes, solely to be used together with alert
      discriminators, are also defined in this specification.

  "MPL Parameter Configuration Option for DHCPv6", Yusuke Doi, Matthew
  Gillmore, 2013-10-10,
  <draft-doi-roll-mpl-parameter-configuration-03.txt>

      This draft is to define a way to configure MPL parameter via DHCPv6
      option.

  "An incremental solution to advanced home networking", Victor Kuarsingh,
  John Brzozowski, Chris Grundemann, John McQueen, 2013-07-04,
  <draft-jvkjjmb-home-networking-incremental-00.txt>

      The home network is an environment subject to ongoing evolution and
      change.  Many home networks today are simplistic in nature, often
      comprising of a single router/gateway.  The expectation over time is
      predicated on the notion that the home network will be more complex
      servicing many in-home and Internet functions.  The home network will
      evolve necessitating the replacement and update to current hardware
      and software to more advanced devices and software capable of
      operating in more complex environments.  This document provides a
      view on how the home network can progress from today's foundational
      form, to a more advanced environment, using progressive technological
      capabilities.

  "Path Computation Element (PCE) Discovery using Domain Name
  System(DNS)", Wenson Wu, Dhruv Dhody, Daniel King, Diego Lopez,
  2013-10-10, <draft-wu-pce-dns-pce-discovery-03.txt>

      Discovery of the Path Computation Element (PCE) within an IGP area or
      routing domain is possible using OSPF [RFC5088] and IS-IS [RFC5089].
      However, it has been established that in certain deployment scenarios
      PCEs may not wish, or be able to participate within the IGP process.
      In those scenarios, it is beneficial for the Path Computation Client
      (PCC) (or other PCE) to discover PCEs via an alternative mechanism to
      those proposed in [RFC5088] and [RFC5089].
      
      This document specifies the requirements, use cases, procedures and
      extensions to support PCE type and capability discovery via DNS.

  "Use cases and requirements for authentication, authorisation and
  revocation in the Internet of Things", Bert Greevenbosch, 2013-07-04,
  <draft-greevenbosch-dice-authent-author-revoc-00.txt>

      This draft describes use cases and associated requirements for
      authentication, authorisation and revocation within the Internet of
      Things.
      
      Note
      
      Discussion and suggestions for improvement are requested, and should
      be sent to dtls-iot@ietf.org.

  "Simplified Extension of interface Space for IS-IS", Changwang Lin,
  Haifeng Zhang, Vishwas Manral, 2013-07-04,
  <draft-lz-isis-relax-interfaces-limit-00.txt>

      This document describes a simplified method for extending the
      interface space beyond the 255 interfaces limit. The proposed
      mechanism does not require any changes to the IS-IS protocol.

  "DHCP DNS Public Authoritative Server Option", Daniel Migault, Wouter
  Cloetens, Chris Griffiths, Ralf Weber, 2013-07-05,
  <draft-mglt-dhc-public-authoritative-server-option-00.txt,.pdf>

      The home network naming architecture as described in
      [I-D.mglt-homenet-front-end-naming-delegation] requires a complex
      naming configuration on the CPE.  This configuration MAY not be
      handled easily by the average end user.  Furthermore, such
      misconfiguration MAY result in making home network unreachable.
      
      This document proposes a DHCP option that provides the CPE all
      necessary parameters to set up the home network naming architecture.
      
      First, this DHCP option provides automatic configuration and avoids
      most end users' misconfigurations.  Most average end users may not
      require specific configuration, and their ISP default configuration
      MAY fully address their needs.  In that case, the naming homenet
      architecture configuration will be completely transparent to the end
      users.  Then, saving naming configuration outside the CPE, makes it
      resilient to change of CPE or CPE upgrades.  Such configuration may
      also be configured by the end user, via the customer area of their
      ISP.

  "LSP-DB Synchronization between Stateful PCEs", Udayasree Palle, Dhruv
  Dhody, Xian Zhang, 2013-07-28,
  <draft-palle-pce-stateful-pce-lspdb-sync-01.txt>

      The Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) provides
      mechanisms for Path Computation Elements (PCEs) to perform path
      computations in response to Path Computation Clients (PCCs) requests.
      
      [STATEFUL-PCE] specifies a set of extensions to PCEP to enable
      stateful control of MPLS-TE and GMPLS Label Switched Paths (LSPs) via
      PCEP and maintaining of these LSPs at the stateful PCE.  This
      document describes the mechanisms of LSP Database (LSP-DB)
      synchronization between stateful PCEs.

  "Information Model for Large-Scale Measurement Platforms (LMAP)", Trevor
  Burbridge, Philip Eardley, Marcelo Bagnulo, Jrgen Schnwlder,
  2013-10-21, <draft-burbridge-lmap-information-model-01.txt>

      This Information Model applies to the Measurement Agent within a
      Large-Scale Measurement Platform.  As such it outlines the
      information that is (pre-)configured on the MA or exists in
      communications with a Controller or Collector within an LMAP
      framework.  The purpose of such an Information Model is to provide a
      protocol and device independent view of the MA that can be
      implemented via one or more Control and Report protocols.

  "KEEP_OLD_IKE_SA Extension", Daniel Migault, 2013-07-05,
  <draft-mglt-ipsecme-keep-old-ike-sa-00.txt,.pdf>

      This document considers a VPN Client setting a VPN with a security
      gateway where at least one of the peer has multiple interfaces.
      
      With the current IKEv2, the outer IP addresses of the VPN are
      determined by those used by IKEv2 channel.  As a result using
      multiple interface requires to set an IKEv2 channel on each
      interface, and then on each paths if both the VPN Client and the
      security gateway have multiple interfaces.  Setting multiple IKEv2
      channel involves multiple authentications which MAY each require
      multiple round trips and delay the VPN establishment.  In addition
      multiple authentications unnecessarily load the VPN client and the
      authentication infrastructure.
      
      This document presents the KEEP_OLD_IKE_SA extension, where an
      additional IKEv2 channel from an already authenticated IKEv2 channel.
      The newly created IKEv2 channel is set without the IKEv2
      authentication exchange.  The newly created IKEv2 channel can then be
      assigned to another interface using MOBIKE.

  "Access Control Framework for Constrained Environments", Goran Selander,
  Mohit Sethi, Ludwig Seitz, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-selander-core-access-control-01.txt>

      The Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) is a light-weight web
      transfer protocol designed to be used in constrained nodes and
      constrained networks.  Communication security support for CoAP,
      including authentication, encryption, integrity protection, is
      specified by means of a DTLS binding for CoAP, but authorization and
      access control are not described in detail.
      
      This document describes a generic and dynamic access control
      framework suitable for constrained environments e.g. using CoAP.  The
      framework builds on standards and well known paradigms for access
      control, externalizing authorization decision making to unconstrained
      nodes while performing authorization decision enforcement and
      verification of local conditions in constrained devices.

  "Asserting DNS Policy Realm Boundaries: The SOPA Resource Record",
  Andrew Sullivan, Jeff Hodges, 2013-07-05,
  <draft-sullivan-domain-policy-authority-00.txt>

      Some Internet client entities on the Internet make inferences about
      the administrative relationships among services on the Internet based
      on the domain names at which they are offered.  At present, it is not
      possible to ascertain organizational administrative boundaries in the
      DNS, therefore such inferences can be erroneous in various ways.
      Mitigation strategies deployed so far will not scale.  The solution
      presented in this memo is to provide a means to make explicit
      assertions regarding certain administrative relationships between
      domain names.

  "OAuth 2.0 SCIM Client Registration Profile", Phil Hunt, Morteza Ansari,
  Anthony Nadalin, 2013-07-05,
  <draft-hunt-oauth-scim-client-reg-00.txt,.pdf>

      This specification defines a SCIM endpoint used to register and
      provision OAuth 2.0 clients to access a OAuth 2.0 protected service
      API in a just-in-time fashion.  This draft profiles how a OAuth 2.0
      client may use SCIM and OAuth 2.0 to manage its registration.

  "Requirements for operator policy in GMPLS networks consisting of
  protected links", Ben Wright, Jonathan Hardwick, Vishnu Shukla, Junjie
  Li, 2013-07-05, <draft-wright-ccamp-op-policy-prot-links-00.txt>

      This document describes policy options required by network operators
      in networks including APS links or links with an inherent protection
      capability.  It also identifies gaps in the current GMPLS standards
      which may prevent these policy options from being implemented.

  "DTLS-based Multicast Security for Low-Power and Lossy Networks (LLNs)",
  Sye Keoh, Sandeep Kumar, Oscar Garcia-Morchon, Esko Dijk, 2013-07-06,
  <draft-keoh-dtls-multicast-security-00.txt>

      Wireless IP-based systems will be increasingly used for building
      control systems in the future where wireless devices interconnect
      with each other, forming low-power and lossy networks (LLNs).  The
      CoAP/6LoWPAN standards are emerging as the de-facto protocols in this
      area for resource-constrained devices.  Both multicast and security
      are key needs in these networks.  This draft presents a method for
      securing multicast communication in LLNs based on the DTLS which is
      already present in CoAP devices.  This draft deals with the
      adaptation of the DTLS record layer to protect multicast group
      communication, assuming that all member devices already have a group
      key in their own possession.  The DTLS record layer implementation is
      used to encrypt a multicast message and to provide message
      authentication using the group key before sending the message via IP
      multicast to the group.

  "Auto Discovery VPN Protocol", Praveen Sathyanarayan, Stephen Hanna,
  Nagavenkata Melam, Yoav Nir, Daniel Migault, Kostas Pentikousis,
  2013-10-21, <draft-sathyanarayan-ipsecme-advpn-03.txt>

      This document defines a protocol for dynamically establishing and
      tearing
      down IPsec tunnels as needed without requiring non-scalable
      configuration.

  "LSP Synchronization for Stateful Path Computation Element (PCE)", Xian
  Zhang, Gang Xie, Dhruv Dhody, 2013-07-07,
  <draft-zhx-pce-stateful-lsp-sync-00.txt>

      The Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) provides
      mechanisms for Path Computation Elements (PCEs) to perform path
      computations in response to Path Computation Clients (PCCs) requests.
      
      [Stateful-pcep] specifies a set of extensions to PCEP to enable
      stateful control of MPLS-TE and GMPLS Label Switched Paths (LSPs) via
      PCEP and maintaining of these LSPs at the stateful PCE.  This
      document describes the mechanisms for incremental LSP Database (LSP-
      DB) synchronization as well as PCE control of the LSP-DB
      synchronization process.

  "Auto Discovery VPN Protocol", Yu Mao, ZhanQun Wang, Vishwas Manral,
  2013-08-18, <draft-mao-ipsecme-ad-vpn-protocol-02.txt>

      This document describes the Auto Discovery VPN (ADVPN) protocol, the
      use case and problem statement for which is described in
      [ADVPN_Problem]. The ADVPN protocol is used for enabling a large of
      number of entities to communicate directly among the peers, with
      minimal configuration and operator intervention. The solution uses
      IPsec[RFC4301] to protect communication between the peers.

  "Simplified and Asynchronous Security Context Interfaces for the Generic
  Security Services Application Programming Interface", Nico Williams,
  2013-07-07, <draft-williams-kitten-ctx-simple-async-00.txt>

      This Internet-Draft proposes extensions to the Generic Security
      Services Application Programming Interface (GSS-API) for replacing
      the exiting GSS_Init_sec_context() and GSS_Accept_sec_context()
      functions with simplified forms that also support asynchrony.

  "Negotiating Human Language Using SDP", Randy, 2013-07-14,
  <draft-gellens-mmusic-negotiating-human-language-01.txt>

      Users have various human (natural) language needs, abilities, and
      preferences regarding spoken, written, and signed languages.  When
      establishing interactive communication "calls" there needs to be a
      way to communicate and ideally match (i.e., negotiate) the caller's
      language preferences with the capabilities of the called party.  This
      is especially important with emergency calls, where a call can be
      routed to a Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP) or call taker
      capable of communicating with the user, or a translator or relay
      operator can be bridged into the call during setup, but this applies
      to non-emergency calls as well (as an example, when calling a company
      call center).
      
      This document describes the need and expected use, and describes a
      solution using new SDP stream attributes plus an optional SIP "hint."

  "Generic Naming Attributes for the Generic Security Services Application
  Programming Interface (GSS-API)", Nico Williams, 2013-08-13,
  <draft-williams-kitten-generic-naming-attributes-01.txt>

      This document specifies several useful generic naming attributes for
      use with the Generic Security Services Application Programming
      Interface (GSS-API) Naming Extensions specified in RFC6680.
      
      These attributes allow applications to extract discrete components of
      a GSS-API "mechanism name" (MN) object: issuer (e.g., realm name,
      domain name, certification authority name), service and host names
      (for host-based service names), user names, and others.

  "Coloring based IP Flow Performance Measurement Framework", Mach Chen,
  Hongming Liu, Yuanbin Yin, Rajiv Papneja, Shailesh Abhyankar, Guangqing
  Deng, Yongliang Huang, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-chen-ippm-coloring-based-ipfpm-framework-01.txt>

      By changing one or more bits of packets to "color" the packets into
      different color blocks, it naturally gives a way to measure the real
      packet loss and delay without inserting any extra OAM packets.  This
      is called "coloring" based IP Flow Performance Measurement (IPFPM).
      This document specifies a framework for this "coloring" based IPFPM
      and defines a new application to the IPFIX for exporting the
      performance measurement statistic data.

  "Network as a service requirement in cloud datacenter", Chen Li, Rong
  Gu, 2013-07-07, <draft-li-nov3-clouddatacenter-requirement-00.txt>

      This document describes some specific features in CDC, especially in
      the public cloud.

  "QoS-level aware Transmission Protocol (QTP) for virtual networks",
  Yuxiang Hu, Guozhen Cheng, Zhiming Wang, Lu Sun, 2013-07-07,
  <draft-lan-nvo3-qtp-00.txt>

      This document provides a QoS-level aware Transmission Protocol (QTP)
      for virtual networks.

  "Analysis of SDN Controller Cluster in Large-scale Production Networks",
  Zehn Cao, 2013-07-07, <draft-zcao-sdnrg-controller-00.txt>

      Software Defined Networking necessitates an efficient, scalable,
      secure Controller Cluster.  This document analyzes the problems of
      implementing and deploying a successful controller system and figures
      out the requirements therein.  This document also proposes a set of
      benchmarks for controller performance evaluation.

  "A REST API For Access To TURN Services", Justin Uberti, 2013-07-07,
  <draft-uberti-rtcweb-turn-rest-00.txt>

      This document describes a proposed standard REST API for obtaining
      access to TURN services via ephemeral (i.e. time-limited)
      credentials.  These credentials are vended by a web service over
      HTTP, and then supplied to and checked by a TURN server using the
      standard TURN protocol.  The usage of ephemeral credentials ensures
      that access to the TURN server can be controlled even if the
      credentials can be discovered by the user, as is the case in WebRTC
      where TURN credentials must be specified in Javascript.

  "Proposal for reusing local codec APIs on mobile devices", Deng Lingli,
  Lingfei Ni, Yu Qing, 2013-07-07, <draft-deng-rtcweb-codecapi-00.txt>

      This document proposes the browser to make use of local codec APIs,
      if available on a mobile device, and notifies RTCWEB applications to
      allow for better tuning between device capability and media quality.

  "ALTO Extensions for Traffic Engineering (TE) performance metrics in
  JSON format", Wenson Wu, Young Lee, Dhruv Dhody, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-wu-alto-json-te-02.txt>

      Cost metric is a basic concept in Application-Layer Traffic
      Optimization (ALTO).  It is used in both the Cost Map Service and the
      Endpoint Cost Service.  However the base protocol defines only a
      single cost metric, i.e., the generic "routingcost" metric (Sec. 14.2
      of ALTO base specification [ALTO]).  In practice, applications may
      request network information on other cost (including performance)
      metrics.
      
      In this document, we define five new base metrics which are delay,
      jitter, pktloss (packet loss), bandwidth and hopcount.  These base
      metrics are further extended with these nine new metrics linkdelay,
      linkjitter, linkloss, maxbw (Maximum Bandwidth), maxreservbw (Maximum
      Reserved Bandwdith), unreservbw (Unreserved Bandwidth), residuebw
      (Residual Bandwidth), availbw (Available Bandwidth), and utilbw
      (Utilized Bandwidth).  Also a new parameter anomalousstate is added.
      These fourteen cost metrics are derived from OSPF-TE and ISIS-TE and
      can be either used as constraint attribute associated with
      'routingcost' cost metric attribute or used as returned Cost metrics
      in the response, or both and hence provide a relatively comprehensive
      set of cost metrics for ALTO.

  "Time Capability in NETCONF", Tal Mizrahi, Yoram Moses, 2013-07-08,
  <draft-mm-netconf-time-capability-00.txt>

      This document defines a capability-based extension to the Network
      Configuration Protocol (NETCONF) that allows time-triggered
      configuration and management operations. This extension allows
      NETCONF clients to invoke configuration updates according to
      scheduled times, and allows NETCONF servers to attach timestamps to
      the data they send to NETCONF clients.

  "Problem Statement for Flow Control of MIF Hosts", Dapeng Liu,
  2013-07-08, <draft-liu-mif-flow-control-ps-00.txt>

      MIF hosts normally have multiple provisioning domains or interfaces.
      In some cases, the applications running on the MIF hosts need to
      select provisioning domain or interface based on either user
      preferences or network polices.  There is currently no standard ways
      for the MIF hosts to implement this kind of provisioning domain/
      interface selection.  This document discusses the problem statement
      of provisioning domain/interface control of the MIF hosts.

  "Current issues with existing RBNF notation for PCEP messages and
  extensions", Ramon Casellas, Cyril Margaria, Adrian Farrel, Oscar de
  Dios, Dhruv Dhody, Xian Zhang, 2013-07-09,
  <draft-cmfg-pce-pcep-grammar-01.txt>

      The PCEP protocol has been defined in [RFC5440] and later extended in
      several RFCs.  This document aims at documenting inconsistencies when
      implementing a set of extensions and at providing a reference,
      complete and formal RBNF grammar for PCEP messages, including object
      ordering and precedence rules.

  "Mobility Support in Software Defined Networking", Dapeng Liu, Hui Deng,
  2013-07-08, <draft-liu-sdn-mobility-00.txt>

      This document discusses the SDN mobility problem and potential
      solutions.

  "An Architecture for Overlay Networks (NVO3)", David Black, Jon Hudson,
  Lawrence Kreeger, Marc Lasserre, Thomas Narten, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-narten-nvo3-arch-01.txt>

      This document presents a high-level overview architecture for
      building overlay networks in NVO3.  The architecture is given at a
      high-level, showing the major components of an overall system.  An
      important goal is to divide the space into individual smaller
      components that can be implemented independently and with clear
      interfaces and interactions with other components.  It should be
      possible to build and implement individual components in isolation
      and have them work with other components with no changes to other
      components.  That way implementers have flexibility in implementing
      individual components and can optimize and innovate within their
      respective components without requiring changes to other components.

  "The Approach for IPv4-only users to access IPv6-only Content",
  Chongfeng Xie, Qiong, Qi He, Cathy Zhou, Xing Li, Congxiao Bao,
  2013-07-28, <draft-sun-behave-v4tov6-01.txt>

      Current approaches can not solve the scenario that the users from
      IPv4 Internet to access IPv6-only content.  When IPv6 content are
      becoming more and more popular, it is important to ensure that IPv6-
      only content can be reachable from legacy IPv4-only clients via some
      IPv4-only network.  This document proposes two approaches for IPv4-
      only users to access IPv6-only content.  It is designed to cover the
      Scenario 2 in [RFC6144].

  "Mega Label - Expansion of MPLS Label Range", Zhenbin Li, Lianshu Zheng,
  2013-07-08, <draft-li-mpls-mega-label-00.txt>

      This document describes the requirement scenarios for expansion of
      MPLS label range.  This document also introduce a framework for
      expansion of MPLS label range-"Mega Label" and the corresponding
      protocol extensions.  This document will update RFC 3032, 5036, 3209
      and 3107 if approved.

  "Proxy MPLS Traffic Engineering Label Switched Path(LSP)", Zhenbin Li,
  Xinzong Zeng, 2013-07-08, <draft-li-mpls-proxy-te-lsp-00.txt>

      This document describes a method to setup MPLS TE proxy egress LSP
      which helps setup end-to-end LSP through stitching MPLS TE proxy
      egress LSP with BGP LSP in the Seamless MPLS network.  The method is
      achieved by new Proxy Destination Object carried in RSVP-TE messages.

  "Segment-Based EVPN(S-EVPN)", Zhenbin Li, Lucy Yong, Junlin Zhang,
  2013-07-08, <draft-li-l2vpn-segment-evpn-00.txt>

      This document proposes an enhanced EVPN mechanism, segment-based EVPN
      (S-EVPN).  It satisfies the requirements of PBB-EVPN but does not
      require PBB implementation on PE.  The solution uses a global label
      for each Ethernet Segment (ES) in an EVPN.  It inserts the source ES
      label into packets at ingress PE and learns C-MAC and source ES label
      binding at egress PE.  The solution makes the implementation easier
      and closer to EVPN's compared to PBB-EVPN but has the PBB-EVPN
      benefits.

  "BGP Extension For L3VPN Performance Monitoring", Hui Ni, Shunwan
  Zhuang, Zhenbin Li, 2013-07-08, <draft-ni-bgp-ext-l3vpn-pm-00.txt>

      This document describes a new VT address family in BGP to exchange
      information required for apply performance monitoring in MPLS/BGP
      VPN, as described in [I-D.dong-l3vpn-pm-framework].

  "BGP Extensions for Service-Driven Co-Routed MPLS Traffic Engineering
  LSP", Hui Ni, Zhenbin Li, 2013-07-08,
  <draft-ni-bgp-ext-sd-co-lsp-00.txt>

      In some large scale L3VPN deployment scenarios like mobile backhaul
      network, it is required that tunnels between two PEs could be setup
      automatically driven by L3VPN service to reduce manual configuration
      effort. Moreover the tunnels must be setup co-routed for the
      goodness of performance monitoring and uniform protection behavior
      for link failure on two directions. This is described in [I-D.li-
      mpls-serv-driven-co-lsp-fmwk]. This document introduces a new
      BGP VT route based on [I-D.ni-bgp-ext-l3vpn-pm]. The route is
      utilized by on side PE to advertise Tunnel ID to other side PE,
      so inverse direction co-routed LSPs can be setup based on path
      information of member LSPs in the first tunnel.

  "Radius Extension for Lightweight 4over6", Chongfeng Xie, Qi Sun, Qiong,
  Cathy Zhou, Tina Tsou, 2013-07-08,
  <draft-sun-softwire-lw4over6-radext-00.txt>

      lightweight 4over6(lw4over6) [I-D.ietf-softwire-lw4over6] is an
      extension to DS-Lite in which the amount of state maintained in
      lwAFTR has been reduced to per-subscriber-level.  The lwB4 needs to
      be provisioned with the public IPv4 address and port set it is
      allowed to use.  The DHCPv4 over DHCPv6 Transport [I.D-ietf-dhc-
      dhcpv4-over-dhcpv6] and Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP)
      Option for Port Set [I.D-sun-dhc-port-set-option] can be used for
      lwB4 to provison with the public IPv4 address and port set.
      
      However, in many networks, the configuration information may be
      stored in Authentication Authorization and Accounting (AAA) servers
      while user configuration is mainly from Broadband Network Gateway
      (BNG).  This document defines a Remote Authentication Dial In User
      Service (RADIUS) attribute that carries lightweight 4over6
      configuration information from AAA server to BNG.

  "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6 (DHCPv6) Option for
  Lightweight 4over6", Chongfeng Xie, Qiong, Yiu Lee, Tina Tsou, Peng Wu,
  2013-07-08, <draft-sun-softwire-lw4over6-dhcpv6-00.txt>

      Lightweight 4over6 [I-D.ietf-softwire-lw4over6] is an extension to
      DS-Lite which moves the Network Address Translation function from the
      DS-Lite AFTR to the B4.  It can be deployed in a DS-Lite network to
      gradually reduce the load of Carrier Grade NAT in the AFTR.  However,
      when DS-Lite and lw4over6 co-exist in the same network, B4 elemtns
      and lwB4 elements may want to signal the DHCPv6 server the type of
      AFTR (i.e.  AFTR or lwAFTR) they request.  In this memo, a new DHCPv6
      option is proposed for lwB4 element to request the IPv6 address of
      its corresponding lwAFTR.

  "HTTPAuthPrep: PRECIS profile for HTTP Authentication", Yutaka Oiwa,
  Takahiro NEMOTO, Boku Kihara, 2013-07-08,
  <draft-oiwa-precis-httpauthprep-00.txt,.ps,.pdf>

      This document describes how to handle Unicode strings representing
      user names and passwords for HTTP authentication.

  "IPv6 Roaming Behavior Analysis", Gang Chen, Hui Deng, Dave Michaud,
  Jouni Korhonen, Mohamed Boucadair, Vizdal Ales, Cameron Byrne,
  2013-10-21, <draft-chen-v6ops-ipv6-roaming-analysis-01.txt>

      This document intends to enumerate failure cases when a IPv6
      subscriber roams into visited network areas.  The investigations on
      those failed cases reveal the causes in order to notice improper
      configurations, equipment's incomplete functions or inconsistent IPv6
      strategy.

  "Radius Attributes for Stateful NAT64", Gang Chen, David Binet,
  2013-07-08, <draft-chen-behave-nat64-radius-extension-00.txt>

      This document proposes new radius attributes for stateful NAT64.  The
      extensions are used to provide geo-location services with an exact
      IPv6 soruce address.  The message flow to deliver the NAT64 binding
      information between radius clients and servers is also described.
      Therefore, accurate location could be traced out depending on the
      radius method.

  "Multi-Topology Extension for the Optimized Link State Routing Protocol
  version 2 (OLSRv2)", Christopher Dearlove, Thomas Clausen, 2013-07-12,
  <draft-dearlove-manet-olsrv2-multitopology-01.txt>

      This specification describes an extension to the Optimized Link State
      Routing Protocol version 2 (OLSRv2) to support multiple routing
      topologies, while retaining interoperability with OLSRv2 routers that
      do not implement this extension.

  "Routing MPR and Other Extensions for the Optimized Link State Routing
  Protocol version 2 (OLSRv2)", Christopher Dearlove, 2013-07-08,
  <draft-dearlove-manet-olsrv2-extensions-00.txt>

      This specification describes an extension to the Optimized Link State
      Routing Protocol version 2 (OLSRv2) to improve the selection of
      routing MPRs.  Other considerations for extending OLSRv2 and the
      MANET Neighborhood Discovery Protocol (NHDP) are also given.

  "ISIS Protocol Extension For Building Distribution Trees", Lucy Yong,
  Hao Weiguo, Donald Eastlake, Andrew Qu, Jon Hudson, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-yong-isis-ext-4-distribution-tree-01.txt>

      This document proposes an IS-IS protocol extension for automatically
      building bi-directional distribution trees to transport multi-
      destination traffic in an IP network.

  "IPv6 RA Options for Next Hop Routes", Behcet Sarikaya, 2013-07-08,
  <draft-sarikaya-6man-rfc4191bis-00.txt>

      This proposes an update on RFC 4191 in order to define new Router
      Advertisement options for configuring next hop routes on the mobile
      or fixed nodes.  Using these options, an operator can easily
      configure nodes with multiple interfaces (or otherwise multi-homed)
      to enable them to select the routes to a destination.  Each option is
      defined together with definitions of host and router behaviors.

  "DHCP Options for Configuring Multicast Addresses in VXLAN", Behcet
  Sarikaya, Frank Xia, 2013-09-26,
  <draft-sarikaya-dhc-vxlan-multicast-02.txt>

      This document defines DHCPv4 and DHCPv6 options for assigning
      multicast addresses for the Tunnel End Point in the Virtual
      eXtensible Local Area Network (VXLAN) environments.  New DHCP options
      are defined which allow a VXLAN Tunnel End Point to request any
      source multicast address for the newly created virtual machine, the
      address of the Rendezvous Point (RP) and possibly address(es) for the
      virtual machine.

  "RPKI Validation Reconsidered", Geoff Huston, George Michaelson,
  2013-07-08, <draft-huston-rpki-validation-00.txt>

      This document reviews the certificate validation procedure specified
      in RFC6487 and highlights aspects of operational management of
      certificates in the RPKI in response to the movement of resources
      across registries, and the associated actions of Certification
      Authorities to maintain certification of resources during this
      movement.  The document describes an alternative validation procedure
      that reduces the operational impact of certificate management during
      resource movement.

  "Updating Additional Data related to an Emergency Call using Subscribe/
  Notify", Brian Rosen, 2013-07-08,
  <draft-rosen-ecrit-addldata-subnot-00.txt>

      Additional Call Data is sent in a SIP Call-Info header or in a
      provided-by element of a PIDF-LO.  Sometimes, the information needs
      to be updated while an emergency call is in progress.  It is best for
      the Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP) to control the timing and
      frequency of updates.  This document describes a SIP Subscribe/Notify
      Package to supply updates of Additional Call Data.

  "Protocol Independent Encoding for Signaling Flow Characteristics",
  Toerless Eckert, Anca Zamfir, Amine Choukir, Charles Eckel, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-choukir-tsvwg-flow-metadata-encoding-01.txt,.pdf>

      This document describes a protocol independent encoding for flow
      characteristics (a.k.a. metadata).  A flow is defined as a set of IP
      packets passing through a network in a given direction.  All packets
      belonging to a particular flow have a set of common properties (e.g.
      IP, port, transport).  Flow metadata exposes key characteristics of
      the flow such as the originating application, the type of media in
      use (e.g.  audio, video) and others as defined in
      [I-D.eckert-intarea-flow-metadata-framework].  The flow
      characteristics are expressed in terms of information elements.
      These information elements are signaled either out of band or in band
      but always along the same path of the flow associated with the
      application.
      
      [I-D.eckert-intarea-flow-metadata-framework] defines the overall
      framework for flow metadata and the definition of the flow
      characteristics, whereas this document captures the encoding of these
      characteristics.  The mapping of flow metadata encoding to different
      signaling protocols is outside the scope of this document.

  "MSRP over WebRTC data channels", Jerome Marcon, Richard Ejzak,
  2013-07-08, <draft-marcon-msrp-over-webrtc-data-channels-00.txt>

      The Real-Time Communication in WEB-browsers (RTCWeb) working group is
      charged to provide protocols to support direct interactive rich
      communication using audio, video, and data between two peers' web-
      browsers.  For the support of data communication, the RTCWeb working
      group has in particular defined the concept of bi-directional data
      channels over SCTP, where each data channel might be used to
      transport other protocols, called sub-protocols.  This document
      specifies how the Message Session Relay Protocol (MSRP) can be
      instantiated as a WebRTC data channel sub-protocol, using the SDP
      offer/exchange to negotiate out-of-band the sub-protocol specific
      parameters.  Two network configurations are documented: a WebRTC end-
      to-end configuration (connecting two MSRP over data channel
      endpoints), and a gateway configuration (connecting an MSRP over data
      channel endpoint with an MSRP over TCP endpoint).

  "Use of "Roles" in CLUE", Christian Groves, Weiwei Yang, Roni Even,
  2013-07-08, <draft-groves-clue-role-clarifications-00.txt>

      There have been recent discussions on the CLUE and DISPATCH mailing
      lists about "roles" associated with multimedia conferences.  From the
      discussions it was apparent that there is some confusion as to what
      the current defined roles actually imply and that people had
      different understanding of the meaning and scope of the term "role".
      This draft seeks to identify the various "roles" that may be
      associated with a multimedia conference and to provide a grouping and
      nomenclature for further discussions on this topic.
      
      Specific to CLUE this draft proposes a number of attributes to be
      able to clearly identify the various roles that may be associated
      with a media capture.

  "BGP Extensions for Service-Driven Co-Routed MPLS Traffic Engineering
  LSP", Hui Ni, Zhenbin Li, 2013-07-08,
  <draft-ni-l3vpn-bgp-ext-sd-co-lsp-00.txt>

      In some large scale L3VPN deployment scenarios like mobile backhaul
      network, it is required that tunnels between two PEs could be setup
      automatically driven by L3VPN service to reduce manual configuration
      effort. Moreover the tunnels must be setup co-routed for the
      goodness of performance monitoring and uniform protection behavior
      for link failure on two directions. This is described in [I-D.li-
      mpls-serv-driven-co-lsp-fmwk]. This document introduces a new
      BGP VT route based on [I-D.ni-bgp-ext-l3vpn-pm]. The route is
      utilized by on side PE to advertise Tunnel ID to other side PE,
      so inverse direction co-routed LSPs can be setup based on path
      information of member LSPs in the first tunnel.

  "BGP Extension For L3VPN Performance Monitoring", Hui Ni, Shunwan
  Zhuang, Zhenbin Li, 2013-07-08, <draft-ni-l3vpn-pm-bgp-ext-00.txt>

      This document describes a new VT address family in BGP to exchange
      information required for apply performance monitoring in MPLS/BGP
      VPN, as described in [I-D.dong-l3vpn-pm-framework].

  "Node Protecting R-LFA and Manageability",  psarkar@juniper.net, Hannes
  Gredler, Shraddha Hegde, Harish Raghuveer, 2013-07-09,
  <draft-psarkar-rtgwg-rlfa-node-protection-01.txt>

      The loop-free alternates computed following the current Remote-LFA
      [I-D.ietf-rtgwg-remote-lfa] specification gaurantees only link-
      protection.  The resulting Remote-LFA nexthops (also called PQ-
      nodes), may not gaurantee node-protection for all destinations being
      protected by it.
      
      This document describes procedures for determining if a given PQ-node
      provides node-protection for a specific destination or not.  The
      document also shows how the same procedure can be utilised for
      collection of complete characteristics for alternate paths.
      Knowledge about the characteristics of all alternate path is
      precursory to apply operator defined policy for eliminating paths not
      fitting constraints.

  "Dynamic Stateless GRE tunnel", Li Xue, Dayong Guo, 2013-07-09,
  <draft-xue-dhc-dynamic-gre-00.txt>

      Specifically, WiFi has emerged as an important access technology for
      Multiple Service Operator (MSO) and mobile service provider.  For
      mobile service provider, WiFi is preferred as a trusted access
      technology for service.  It has became important to provide simple
      transition method expected for service via WiFi access.  For example,
      tunnelling on the customer side aims at conveying WiFi service
      between a hotspot and the Service Gateway.  GRE tunnel is an
      increasingly popular encapsulation choice because of simple
      encapsulation and easy implementation, especially in aforementioned
      environments.  However, manual configuration is not suitable if there
      are large numbers of the end-points of GRE tunnels.  This document
      proposes a dynamic-configured stateless GRE tunnel, which does not
      modify encapsulation format of GRE, but adds signaling for tunnel
      parameters discovery, such as address, GRE key etc.

  "One Administrative Domain", Jim Uttaro, Saikat Ray, Prodosh Mohapatra,
  2013-07-09, <draft-uttaro-idr-oad-00.txt>

      The notional premise that different Autonomous Systems belong to
      different administrative authorities may not always hold.  A single
      administrative authority may instantiate services on and across
      multiple ASes.  A customer accessing those services can reasonably
      expect that attributes such as LOCAL_PREF that influence routing be
      applicable even across different ASes.  This document describes a
      mechanism to do so.

  "Flow Metadata Signaling with RSVP", Toerless Eckert, Anca Zamfir, Amine
  Choukir, 2013-07-09, <draft-zamfir-tsvwg-flow-metadata-rsvp-00.txt>

      This specification proposes RSVP protocol extensions for signaling
      flow metadata attributes.

  "PIM neighbor selection with ECMP routes", Bharat Joshi, Jithesh
  Kaveetil, 2013-07-09, <draft-joshi-pim-ecmp-neighbor-select-00.txt>

      A Protocol Independent Multicast (PIM) router uses local forwarding
      table to select the upstream PIM neighbor towards the source or
      Rendezvous Point (RP).  A router need to choose one upstream PIM
      neighbor from the list of PIM neighbors if the route for a source or
      RP is an Equal Cost Multipath (ECMP) route.  Currently PIM routers
      use vendor specific algorithm to choose one neighbor.  This may lead
      to unnecessary wastage of network resources.  This draft first
      explains the need for a standard algorithm to select a PIM neighbor
      with ECMP route and then suggest such an algorithm.

  "A Real-Time Transport Protocol (RTP) Header Extension for VP8 Temporal
  Layer Information", Adam Fineberg, 2013-07-09,
  <draft-fineberg-avtext-temporal-layer-ext-00.txt>

      This document defines a mechanism by which packets of Real-Time
      Tranport Protocol (RTP) video streams encoded with the VP8 codec can
      indicate, in an RTP header extension, the temporal layer information
      about the frame encoded in the RTP packet.  This information can be
      used in a middlebox performing bandwidth management of streams
      without requiring it to decrypt the streams.

  "Use Cases and Architecture of Central Controlled IP RAN", Katherine
  Zhao, Jiehui Hu, 2013-07-09,
  <draft-khy-rtgwg-central-controlled-ipran-00.txt>

      This document introduces the requirements and use cases for IP RAN
      (Radio Access Networks). To support the requirements, the document
      provides an architecture with centralized control plane as well as
      separation of control plane and data plane.  The document also
      describes techniques for IP RAN network initialization and
      construction; interfacing to management plane and third party
      applications.  This document can be used as a guideline for central
      controlled IP RAN design and development.

  "DNS A Record Filtering for the migration from dual stack networks to
  IPv6 only networks.", Hiroaki Hazeyama, Tomohiro Ishihara, Osamu
  Nakamura, 2013-07-09, <draft-hazeyama-sunset4-dns-a-filter-00.txt>

      Filtering out of A records of a DNS response on a DNS proxy, we call
      it ``DNS A record filtering'', is an effective and efficient solution
      as a smooth migration to IPv6 only networks.  DNS A record filtering
      can mitigate fallback problems of dual stack nodes on IPv6 only
      environment.  This memo mentions the components of the DNS A record
      filter solution, procedure of DNS queries and refers current issues.

  "IPv4 Address Literal in URL", Osamu Nakamura, Hiroaki Hazeyama, Yukito
  Ueno, Akira Kato, 2013-07-09,
  <draft-osamu-v6ops-ipv4-literal-in-url-00.txt>

      In an IPv6-only environment with DNS64/NAT64 based translation
      service, there is no way to get access a URL whose domain name part
      includes an IPv4 address literal.  This memo discusses a few methods
      to rewrite the URL on an IPv6-only host so that the URL is accessible
      from the IPv6-only host.

  "Capability Announcement and AR Discovery in CAPWAP Control and Data
  Channel Separation", Li Xue, Zongpeng Du, Dapeng Liu, Rong Zhang, John
  Kaippallimalil, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-xue-opsawg-capwap-separation-capability-01.txt>

      In centralized IEEE 802.11 Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
      architecture, the Access Controller (AC) isn't intelligent enough
      actually to aggregate all the wireless frames, even the bandwidth
      requirement in the access point is increasing.  Thus it is a general
      case in the existing operator's network that WTPs forward the
      wireless frames directly to Access Router (AR) to avoid overload on
      the AC.  In this scenario, CAPWAP Control Channel and CAPWAP Data
      Channel are separated from each other.  This document extends CAPWAP
      for applicability of CAPWAP Control and Data Channel separation.

  "Large MeAsurement Platform Protocol", Marcelo Bagnulo, Trevor
  Burbridge, Sam Crawford, Jrgen Schnwlder, Vaibhav Bajpai, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-bagnulo-lmap-http-01.txt>

      This documents specifies the LMAP protocol based on HTTP for the
      Control and Report in Large Scale Measurement Platforms.

  "Security UDT using TLS/DTLS", Tatikayala Gopal, 2013-07-09,
  <draft-tsg-tls-udt-sec-00.txt>

      This document describes about providing security to UDP Based Data
      Transfer (UDT) protocol. UDT is application level protocol built on
      the top of UDP, which effectively utilizes bandwidth in the high
      speed network as compared with TCP. UDT relies on the above layer for
      security because of absence of in-build security mechanisms. This
      document proposes the use of Transport Layer Security (TLS)/Datagram
      Transport Layer Security (DTLS) for securing the UDT protocol.

  "Considerations for Selecting RTCP Extended Report (XR) Metrics for the
  RTCWEB Statistics API", Rachel Huang, Roni Even, Varun Singh, Dan
  Romascanu, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-huang-xrblock-rtcweb-rtcp-xr-metrics-02.txt>

      This document describes monitoring features related to RTCWEB. It
      provides a list of RTCP XR metrics that are useful and may need to be
      supported in some RTCWEB implementations.

  "How to Call Chinese "Han" People's Names", Hui Deng, Zehn Cao,
  2013-07-15, <draft-deng-call-chinese-names-01.txt>

      This document tries to give a brief introduction of how to call
      Chinese people's name in Chinese way.  After reading this, you will
      find it quite easy to accomplish that.

  "How to Pronounce Chinese Names", Zehn Cao, Hui Deng, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-zcao-chinese-pronounce-01.txt>

      This document tries to give a brief introduction of how to pronounce
      Chinese spelling of names.  After reading it, you will find it very
      easy to accomplish that.

  "Stateless user-plane architecture for virtualized EPC (vEPC)", Satoru
  Matsushima, Ryuji Wakikawa, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-matsushima-stateless-uplane-vepc-01.txt>

      We envision a new mobile architecture for the future Evolved Packet
      Core (EPC).  The new architecture is designed to support the
      virtualization scheme called NFV (Network Function Virtualization).
      In our architecture, the user plane of EPC is decoupled from the
      control-plane and uses routing information to forward packets of
      mobile nodes.  Although the EPC control plane will run on hypervisor,
      our proposal does not modify the signaling of the EPC control plane.
      The benefits of our architecture are 1) scalability, 2) flexibility
      and 3) Manageability.  How to run the EPC control plane on NFV is out
      of our focus in this document.

  "CLUE protocol", Roberta Presta, Simon Romano, 2013-10-08,
  <draft-presta-clue-protocol-02.txt>

      The CLUE protocol is an application protocol conceived for the
      description and negotiation of a CLUE telepresence session.  The
      design of the CLUE protocol takes into account the requirements and
      the framework defined, respectively, in [I-D.ietf-clue-framework] and
      [I-D.ietf-clue-telepresence-requirements].  The companion document
      [I-D.kyzivat-clue-signaling] delves into CLUE signaling details, as
      well as on the SIP/SDP session establishment phase.  We herein focus
      on the application level perspective.  Message details, together with
      the behavior of both the Media Provider and the Media Consumer are
      discussed.

  "Federated Filesystem Security Addendum", Chuck Lever, 2013-07-11,
  <draft-cel-fedfs-security-addendum-01.txt,.ps,.pdf>

      This document addresses critical security-related items that are
      missing from existing FedFS proposed standards.

  "Free from Using Zone Identifier for IPv6 Link-Local Address", Hiroshi
  Kitamura, Shingo Ata, Masayuki Murata, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-kitamura-ipv6-zoneid-free-01.txt>

      This document describes "Zone-ID Free" functions that make end
      users free from using zone identifiers (Zone-ID) for IPv6 link-
      local addresses.
      
      When users deal with IPv6 link-local addresses, it is thought that
      it is mandatory thing to specify accompanied Zone-IDs. For end
      users, however, it is troublesome and nuisance thing to do it.
      Because it is very hard for normal end users to find appropriate
      Zone-IDs for this purpose.
      
      From another viewpoint, the usage of IPv6 link-local addresses
      accompanied with Zone-IDs is quite different from the traditional
      usage of global addresses. Therefore many problems related with
      Zone-ID are caused and new specifications are required to fix these
      problems.
      
      This document explores and describes how "Zone-ID Free" functions
      work and how end users are released from using Zone-IDs when they
      deal with IPv6 link-local addresses.
      
      The "Zone-ID Free" functions are upper compatible with the current
      usages of dealing with IPv6 link-local addresses and harmless to
      the existing communications.

  "TLS sessions in SIP using DNS-based Authentication of Named Entities
  (DANE) TLSA records", oej, 2013-07-10, <draft-johansson-dane-sip-00.txt>

      Use of TLS in the SIP protocol is defined in multiple documents,
      starting with RFC 3261.  The actual verification that happens when
      setting up a SIP TLS connection to a SIP server based on a SIP URI is
      described in detail in RFC 5922 - SIP Domain Certificates.
      
      In this document, an alternative method is defined, using DNS-Based
      Authentication of Named Entities (DANE).  By looking up TLSA DNS
      records and using DNSsec protection of the required queries,
      including lookups for NAPTR and SRV records, a SIP Client can verify
      the identity of the TLS SIP server in a different way, matching on
      the SRV host name in the X.509 PKIX certificate instead of the SIP
      domain.  This provides more scalability in hosting solutions and make
      it easier to use standard CA certificates (if needed at all).
      
      This document updates RFC 5922.

  "Usecases of MPLS Global Label", Zhenbin Li, Quintin Zhao, Tianle Yang,
  2013-07-10, <draft-li-mpls-global-label-usecases-00.txt>

      As the SDN(Service-Driven Network) technology develops, MPLS global
      label has been proposed again for new solutions.  The document
      proposes possible usecases of MPLS global label.  MPLS global label
      can be used for identification of the location, the service and the
      network in different application scenarios.  From these usecases we
      can see that no matter SDN or traditional application scenarios, the
      new solutions based on MPLS global label can gain advantage over the
      existing solutions to facilitate service provisions.

  "Active-active access in NVO3 network", Hao Weiguo, Li Yizhou,
  2013-07-10, <draft-hao-l2vpn-evpn-nvo3-active-active-00.txt>

      E-VPN can be used as a control plane protocol for NVO3 network. In All-
      Active
      access scenario, loop & echo forwarding prevention among multi-
      homed NVEs relies
      on "Split horizon" filtering mechanism. ESI MPLS label
      is leveraged to perform
      split horizon filtering in MPLS based EVPN
      network. In VXLAN or NVGRE
      encapsulation based overlay network, no MPLS
      is used. Therefore a new method is
      introduced in this document to
      achieve split horizon filtering in non-MPLS overlay
      network. Data plane
      of the overlay network is extended with a LAGID field. The
      function of
      LAGID is similar to ESI MPLS Label in [EVPN]. It is used to identify
      each Ethernet segment(ES) on each NVE.

  "A Framework of MPLS Global Label", Zhenbin Li, Quintin Zhao, Tianle
  Yang, 2013-07-10, <draft-li-mpls-global-label-framework-00.txt>

      The document defines the framework of MPLS global label including:
      representation of MPLS global label, process of control plane for
      MPLS global label, and process of data plane for MPLS global label.

  "Efficient XML Interchange Capability for NETCONF", Robert Varga,
  2013-10-21, <draft-varga-netconf-exi-capability-01.txt>

      The Network Configuration Protocol (NETCONF) provides mechanisms to
      install, manipulate, and delete the configuration of network devices
      via exchange of XML messages in textual representation.  Efficient
      XML Interchange (EXI) is a W3C-recommended binary representation of
      XML Information Set, which is more efficient from both CPU and
      bandwidth utilization perspective.  This document defines a
      capability-based extension to the NETCONF protocol that allows peers
      to agree to exchange protocol messages using EXI encoding.

  "BGP Path Marking", Camilo Cardona, Pierre Francois, Saikat Ray, Keyur
  Patel, Paolo Lucente, Prodosh Mohapatra, 2013-07-10,
  <draft-bgp-path-marking-00.txt>

      The potential advertisement of non-best paths by a BGP speaker
      supporting the add-path or the best-external extensions makes it
      difficult for other BGP speakers to identify the paths that have been
      selected as best by those who advertise them.  This information is
      required for proper operation of some applications.  Towards that
      end, this document proposes marking the paths using extended
      communities that encode the path type.

  "Energy Reporting Framework", Bruce Nordman, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-nordman-eman-er-framework-02.txt,.pdf>

      Managing energy consumption of devices presents new challenges and
      issues.  The EMAN Requirements draft identifies essential
      capabilities needed to accomplish this.  This draft describes how an
      energy management system can use EMAN to gather and interpret data
      from individual devices, and how some of the Requirements are
      implemented in the model.  This document focuses on Energy Reporting,
      though acknowledges and fully includes the limited control functions
      specified in the Requirements draft.  Topics addressed in detail
      include the topology of power distribution, reporting mechanisms, and
      the various roles of devices, power interfaces, and components.

  "Advertising Global Labels Using IGP", KuiKe Building, Mach Chen,
  2013-07-11, <draft-xu-rtgwg-global-label-adv-00.txt>

      Segment Routing (SR) [SR-ARCH] is a new MPLS paradigm in which each
      SR-capable router is required to independently advertise global MPLS
      labels for its attached prefixes using IGP [SR-ISIS-EXT][SR-OSPF-EXT].
      One major challenge associated with such label advertisement
      mechanism is how to avoid a given global MPLS label from being
      allocated by different routers to different prefixes. Although manual
      allocation can address such label allocation collision problem, it is
      error-prone and therefore may not be suitable for large SR network
      environments. This document proposes an alternative approach for
      advertising global labels without any risk of label allocation
      collision.

  "Use Cases of Route Reflection based Traffic Steering", Mach Chen,
  Shunwan Zhuang, Yongqing Zhu, Subin Wang, 2013-07-11,
  <draft-chen-idr-rr-based-traffic-steering-usecase-00.txt>

      Route Reflection based Traffic Steering (RRTS) is an idea that
      leverages the BGP route reflection mechanism to realize traffic
      steering in the network, therefore the operators can conduct their
      traffic to transmit/receive through specific nodes, domains and/or
      planes as demand.  This document introduces the requirements and use
      cases of RRTS.

  "NETCONF rpc-error extension", Shouchuan Yang, Xiaofeng Ji, Tina Tsou,
  Gang Yan, 2013-07-11, <draft-ysc-netconf-rpc-error-extension-00.txt>

      The NETCONF is a machine-machine interface, it is easy to expand.
      This document will expand the rpc-error message to make multiple
      language support easily.

  "Energy-awareness metrics global applicability guidelines", Antonio
  Junior, Rute Sofia, 2013-07-11,
  <draft-ajunior-roll-energy-awareness-00.txt>

      This document describes a new set of energy-awareness metrics which
      have been devised to be applicable to any multihop routing protocol
      having in mind LLNs, including the Routing for Low Power and Lossy
      Networks (RPL) protocol.

  "Private Key Hiding for Transport Layer Security (TLS)", Seung Jung,
  Souhwan Jung, 2013-10-16, <draft-jj-tls-private-key-hiding-01.txt>

      This document describes a private key hiding protocol and a joint
      private key operation protocol for Transport Layer Security (TLS)
      without needing to modify existing TLS.

  "Federated Filesystem Security Addendum", Chuck Lever, 2013-07-11,
  <draft-cel-nfsv4-fedfs-security-addendum-00.txt,.ps,.pdf>

      This document addresses critical security-related items that are
      missing from existing FedFS proposed standards.

  "Signaling Color Label Switched Paths Using LDP", Santiago Alvarez,
  Kamran Raza, Sami Boutros, 2013-07-11,
  <draft-alvarez-mpls-ldp-color-lsp-00.txt>

      This document describes extensions to the Label Distribution Protocol
      (LDP) to signal a switching preference in the presence of multiple
      paths.  A label switched router (LSR) can associate locally a color
      with one or more downstream paths or links, and signal a label path
      per color to upstream LSRs.  Based on local policy, LSRs can select
      between these color LSPs to implement a forwarding preference on a
      downstream LSR.  An egress LSR may influence the signaling decision
      of other LSRs by signaling interest in specific colors.

  "sacm: Alternate Architecture", Russ Housley, Sean Turner, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-handt-sacm-alternate-architecture-01.txt>

      This document proposes and alternate architecture for sacm (a
      proposed working group at the time this draft was submitted).

  "Using the Publish-Subscribe Model in the Interface to the Routing
  System", Ken Beck, Nancy Cam-Winget, David McGrew, 2013-07-11,
  <draft-camwinget-i2rs-pubsub-sec-00.txt>

      In the Publish-Subscribe model, subscribers express their interest in
      an event, or a pattern of events, and are subsequently notified of
      any event generated by a publisher that matches their registered
      interest.  The model is well suited for communication in large-scale
      and loosely coupled distributed systems.  This document describes how
      the model fits into Interface to the Routing System (I2RS) and
      Software Defined Networking (SDN) architectures, and analyzes its
      advantages, its security requirements, and its use in providing
      security within I2RS.

  "sacm: Asset Identifier", Russ Housley, Sean Turner, 2013-07-11,
  <draft-handt-sacm-asset-identifiers-00.txt>

      This document examines the asset identifiers available for sacm and
      it proposes that OIDs (Object Identifiers) be selected as the asset
      identifier format.

  "An IPv6 Distributed Client Mobility Management approach using existing
  mechanisms", Carlos Bernardos, Antonio de la Oliva, Fabio Giust,
  2013-07-11, <draft-bernardos-dmm-cmip-00.txt>

      The use of centralized mobility management approaches -- such as
      Mobile IPv6 -- poses some difficulties to operators of current and
      future networks, due to the expected large number of mobile users and
      their exigent demands.  All this has triggered the need for
      distributed mobility management alternatives, that alleviate
      operators' concerns allowing for cheaper and more efficient network
      deployments.
      
      This draft describes a possible way of achieving a distributed
      mobility behavior with Client Mobile IP, based on Mobile IPv6 and the
      use of Cryptographic Generated Addresses.

  "Layer 4-7 Service Chain problem statement", Linda Dunbar, Donald
  Eastlake, 2013-07-11, <draft-dunbar-l4-l7-sc-problem-statement-00.txt>

      This draft analyzes the taxonomy of Layer 4-7 Services and gives
      two examples of Layer 4-7 service chain, one from a traffic
      steering perspective and another one from a Layer 7 perspective.
      The intent is to emphasize their unique issues and challenges.

  "The I-JSON Message Format", Tim Bray, 2013-07-11,
  <draft-bray-i-json-00.txt>

      I-JSON is a restricted profile of JSON designed to maximize
      interoperability and increase confidence that software can process it
      successfully with predictable results.

  "OSPF Routing Extension for Links with Variable Discrete Bandwidth", Hao
  Long, Min Ye, Greg Mirsky, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-long-ccamp-ospf-availability-extension-01.txt>

      Packet switching network may contain links with variable discrete
      bandwidth, e.g., copper, radio, etc. The bandwidth of such link may
      change discretely in reaction to changing external environment.
      Availability is typically used for describing such links during
      network planning. This document describes an extension for OSPF
      routing for route computation in a Packet Switched Network (PSN)
      which contains links with variable discrete bandwidth by introducing
      an optional availability sub-TLV.

  "JSON Activity Streams 2.0", James Snell, 2013-09-17,
  <draft-snell-activitystreams-04.txt>

      This specification details a model for representing potential and
      completed activities using the JSON format.

  "Connecting IPv6 Multicast Islands over IPv4 MPLS Using IPv6 Provider
  Edge Routers (6PE)", Zhenbin Li, Shunwan Zhuang, Hui Ni, 2013-07-11,
  <draft-li-idr-mcast-6pe-00.txt>

      This document defines a new Network Layer Reachability Information
      (NLRI), called as the MCAST-6PE NLRI.  The MCAST-6PE NLRI is used to
      interconnect IPv6 C-Multicast islands over a Multiprotocol Label
      Switching (MPLS)-enabled IPv4 cloud.  This approach relies on IPv6
      Provider Edge routers (6PE), which can exchange the IPv6 C-Multicast
      reachability information transparently over the core using the
      Multiprotocol Border Gateway Protocol (MP-BGP) over IPv4.  This
      document describes the BGP encodings and procedures for exchanging
      the information elements required by IPv6 Multicast in 6PE.  MPLS-
      based Service Providers may use the 6PE Multicast mechanism to
      provide IPv6 Multicast service for customers.

  "Public Key-Based Kerberos Cross Realm Path Traversal Protocol Using
  Kerberized Certification Authorities (kx509) and PKINIT", Nico Williams,
  2013-08-13, <draft-williams-kitten-krb5-pkcross-02.txt>

      This document specifies a protocol for obtaining cross-realm Kerberos
      tickets using existing, related protocols: kerberized certification
      authorities (kx509) and public key cryptography initial
      authentication in Kerberos (PKINIT).  The resulting protocol has a
      number of desirable security properties, including privacy protection
      for the user relative to their home realm's infrastructure, as well a
      support for leap-of-faith trust establishment, and automated cross-
      realm keying.  This protocol allows Kerberos to scale to large
      numbers of realms.

  "Problems of Active-Active connection at the TRILL Edge", Li Yizhou,
  Donald Eastlake, Hao Weiguo, 2013-07-11,
  <draft-yizhou-trill-active-active-connection-prob-00.txt>

      The IETF TRILL (Transparent Interconnection of Lots of
      Links)_protocol provides support for flow level multi-pathing with
      rapid failover for both unicast and multi-destination traffic in
      networks with arbitrary topology and link technology between TRILL
      switches. Active-active at the TRILL edge is the extension, in so far
      as practical, of these characteristics to end stations that are
      multiply connected to a TRILL campus. This informational document
      discusses some of the high level problems to be overcome in providing
      active-active at the TRILL edge.

  "Seamless MPLS for Mobile Backhaul", Zhenbin Li, Lei Li, Manuel Morillo,
  Tianle Yang, 2013-07-11, <draft-li-mpls-seamless-mpls-mbb-00.txt>

      This document introduces the framework of Seamless MPLS to integrate
      the mobile backhaul network with the core network.  New requirements
      of Seamless MPLS for mobile backhaul networks are defined and
      corresponding solutions are proposed.

  "An Identity Key-based and Effective Signature for Origin-Unknown
  Types", Hadriel Kaplan, 2013-07-11, <draft-kaplan-stir-ikes-out-00.txt>

      This document describes a mechanism and format for signing source
      identity information of communication requests, in a manner capable
      of crossing multiple communication protocol types - even if the
      origin's protocol type is unknown.  This is useful for providing
      E.164 and other forms of Caller-ID reputability for various
      communication protocols, such as SIP, XMPP, WebRTC, H.323, and
      SS7/ISUP.

  "Network as a service requirement in cloud datacenter", Chen Li, Rong
  Gu, 2013-07-11, <draft-li-nvo3-clouddatacenter-requirement-00.txt>

      This document describes some specific features in CDC, especially in
      the public cloud.

  "Update Forced Switch Priority", Huub van Helvoort, 2013-07-12,
  <draft-helvoort-ccamp-fs-priority-00.txt>

      This document clarifies the definitions related to Manual Switch and
      Forced Switch. This document updates RFC 4427.

  "BGP attribute for North-Bound Distribution of Traffic Engineering (TE)
  performance Metrics", Wenson Wu, Wang Danhua, Stefano Previdi, Hannes
  Gredler, Saikat Ray, 2013-10-20, <draft-wu-idr-te-pm-bgp-03.txt>

      In order to populate network performance information like link
      latency, latency variation, packet loss and bandwidth into Traffic
      Engineering Database(TED) and ALTO server, this document describes
      extensions to BGP protocol, that can be used to distribute network
      performance information (such as link delay, delay variation, packet
      loss, residual bandwidth, available bandwidth and utilized bandwidth
      ).

  "SSH File Transfer Protocol", S Moonesamy, 2013-07-12,
  <draft-moonesamy-secsh-filexfer-00.txt>

      The SSH File Transfer Protocol provides secure file transfer
      functionality over any reliable data stream.  It is the standard file
      transfer protocol for use with the SSH2 protocol.  This document
      describes the file transfer protocol and its interface to the SSH2
      protocol suite.

  "Network Address Port Group Translator", Wei Meng, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-meng-behave-napgt-01.txt>

      Currently, if an internal server and hosts are behind NAT, they
      cannot share a global IP address except adding lots of static NAPT
      rule configuration.  Because if a server wants to provide a service
      by constant port(i.e. HTTP and FTP) , the destination port of packet
      sent by an external client should not be changed when it crosses NAT.
      This document specifies a new method to assign NAPT global address
      and port, aiming to solve the problem that internal servers and hosts
      cannot share less global IP addresses.

  "ConEx Crediting and Auditing", David Wagner, Mirja Kuehlewind,
  2013-07-12, <draft-wagner-conex-credit-00.txt>

      Congestion Exposure (ConEx) is a mechanism by which senders inform
      the network about the congestion encountered by previous packets on
      the same flow.  In order to make ConEx information useful, reliable
      auditing is necessary to provide a strong incentive to declare ConEx
      information honestly.  However, there is always a delay between
      congestion events and the respective ConEx signal at the audit.  To
      avoid state and complex Round-Trip Time estimations at the audit, in
      [draft-ietf-conex-abstract-mech] it is proposed to use credit signals
      sent in advance to cover potential congestion in the next feedback
      delay duration.  Unfortunately, introducing credit does not provide
      incentives to honestly report congestion.  This document lists
      potential issues regarding the proposed crediting and discusses
      potential solutions approaches to interpret and handle credits at the
      audit.

  "Implication of 3GPP Link Characteristics on Lightweight IP Design",
  Yuanchen Ma, Zehn Cao, 2013-07-12, <draft-ma-lwig-3gpplink-imply-00.txt>

      In 3GPP Release 12, the work item Machine Type Communication (MTC) is
      specifying low cost terminals for Machine to Machine communications.
      Since IETF has already developed a suite of protocols for device
      communication, it is useful to analyze the limitation of 3GPP MTC and
      the impact on the implementation of IETF protocol suite.  This
      document analyzes the feature of 3GPP MTC and the impact on light
      weight protocol implementation for the MTC terminals.

  "CoAP over WebSockets", Teemu Savolainen, Klaus Hartke, Bilhanan
  Silverajan, 2013-10-18, <draft-savolainen-core-coap-websockets-01.txt>

      This document specifies how to retrieve and update CoAP resources
      using CoAP requests and responses over the WebSocket Protocol.

  "A Format for Embedding Code in RFC", Riccardo Bernardini, 2013-07-12,
  <draft-bernardini-embedded-code-00.txt>

      Some RFC need to include some code or some kind of data like test
      vectors.  Extracting the code or the data from the RFC "by hand" is
      possible, but tiresome and prone to errors, especially if the portion
      to be extracted is long or comprises many files.  This document
      describes a format that can be used to embed code or data in an RFC,
      so that it can be extract by a software, while preserving the
      readibility of the embedded text.

  "An Out-Of-Band Setup Protocol For RPKI Production Services", Rob
  Austein, 2013-07-12, <draft-austein-sidr-rpki-oob-setup-00.txt>

      This note describes a simple out-of-band protocol to ease setup of
      the RPKI provisioning and publication protocols between two parties.
      The protocol is encoded in a small number of XML messages, which can
      be passed back and forth by any mutually agreeable secure means.
      
      This setup protocol is not part of the provisioning or publication
      protocol, rather, it is intended to simplify configuration of these
      protocols by setting up relationships and exchanging BPKI keying
      material.

  "Extensions to Resource ReserVation Protocol-Traffic Engineering
  (RSVP-TE) for Error Notication in Generalized Multiprotocol Label
  Switching (GMPLS) User-Network Interface (UNI)", Zafar Ali, George
  Swallow, Matt Hartley, Clarence Filsfils, Kenji Kumaki, 2013-07-12,
  <draft-ali-ccamp-gmpls-uni-error-notification-00.txt>

      There are many scenarios in which extensions to Resource ReserVation
      Protocol-Traffic Engineering (RSVP-TE) are required for error
      notication in Generalized Multiprotocol Label Switching (GMPLS)
      User-Network Interface (UNI). This document outlines these scenarios
      and specifies the required extensions to RSVP-TE. Although the
      GMPLS-UNI reference model is used to describe requirements and
      solutions in the document, the proposed extensions are equally
      applicable to other deployment scenarios such as inter-domain RSVP-
      TE.

  "A Near Term Solution for Home IP Networking (HIPnet)", Chris
  Grundemann, Chris Donley, John Brzozowski, Lee Howard, Victor Kuarsingh,
  2013-07-12, <draft-grundemann-hipnet-00.txt>

      Home networks are becoming more complex.  With the launch of new
      services such as home security, IP video, Smart Grid, etc., many
      Service Providers are placing additional IPv4/IPv6 routers on the
      subscriber network.  This document describes a self-configuring home
      router that is capable of operating in such an environment, and that
      requires no user interaction to configure it.  Compliant with draft-
      ietf-homenet-arch, it uses existing protocols in new ways without the
      need for a routing protocol.

  "Optimized Link State Routing Protocol version 2 (OLSRv2) and MANET
  Neighborhood Discovery Protocol (NHDP) Extension TLVs", Christopher
  Dearlove, Thomas Clausen, 2013-07-31,
  <draft-dearlove-manet-nhdp-olsrv2-tlv-extension-02.txt>

      This specification describes extensions to definitions of TLVs used
      by the Optimized Link State Routing Protocol version 2 (OLSRv2) and
      the MANET Neighborhood Discovery Protocol (NHDP), to increase their
      abilities to accommodate protocol extensions.  This document updates
      OLSRv2 and RFC6130.

  "Routing MPR Optimization for the Optimized Link State Routing Protocol
  version 2 (OLSRv2)", Christopher Dearlove, Thomas Clausen, 2013-07-12,
  <draft-dearlove-manet-olsrv2-rmpr-optimization-00.txt>

      This specification updates the Optimized Link State Routing Protocol
      version 2 (OLSRv2) with an optimization to improve the selection of
      routing MPRs.  The optimization retains full interoperability between
      implementations of OLSRv2 with and without this optimization.

  "OSPF Extensions to Support Maximally Redundant Trees", Alia Atlas,
  Shraddha Hegde,  cbowers@juniper.net, Jeff Tantsura, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-atlas-ospf-mrt-01.txt,.pdf>

      This document specifies extensions to OSPF to support the distributed
      computation of Maximally Redundant Trees (MRT).  Some example uses of
      the MRTs include IP/LDP Fast-Reroute and global protection or live-
      live for multicast traffic.  The extensions indicate what MRT
      profile(s) each router supports.  Different MRT profiles can be
      defined to support different uses and to allow transitioning of
      capabilities.  An extension is introduced to flood MRT-Ineligible
      links, due to administrative policy.
      
      The need for a mechanism to allow routers to advertise a worst-case
      FIB compute/install time is well understood for controlling
      convergence.  This specification introduces the Controlled
      Convergence TLV to be carried in the Router Information LSA.

  "LDP Extensions to Support Maximally Redundant Trees", Alia Atlas,
  Kishore Tiruveedhula, Jeff Tantsura, IJsbrand Wijnands, 2013-07-12,
  <draft-atlas-mpls-ldp-mrt-00.txt>

      This document specifies extensions to LDP to support the creation of
      label-switched paths for Maximally Redundant Trees (MRT).  A prime
      use of MRTs is for unicast and multicast IP/LDP Fast-Reroute (MRT-
      FRR).
      
      The sole protocol extension to LDP is simply the ability to advertise
      an MRT Capability.  This document describes that extension and the
      associated behavior expected for LSRs and LERs advertising the MRT
      Capability.
      
      MRT-FRR uses LDP multi-topology extensions and requires three
      different multi-topology IDs to be allocated from the LDP MT-ID
      space.

  "Global Table Multicast with BGP-MVPN Procedures", Jeffrey Zhang,
  Leonard Giuliano, Eric Rosen, Karthik Subramanian, Dante Pacella, Jason
  Schiller, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-zzhang-l3vpn-mvpn-global-table-mcast-01.txt>

      RFC6513, RFC6514, and other RFCs describe protocols and procedures
      which a Service Provider (SP) may deploy in order offer Multicast
      Virtual Private Network (Multicast VPN or MVPN) service to its
      customers.  Some of these procedures use BGP to distribute VPN-
      specific multicast routing information across a backbone network.
      With a small number of relatively minor modifications, the very same
      BGP procedures can also be used to distribute multicast routing
      information that is not specific to any VPN.  Multicast that is
      outside the context of a VPN is known as "Global Table Multicast", or
      sometimes simply as "Internet multicast".  In this document, we
      describe the modifications that are needed to use the MVPN BGP
      procedures for Global Table Multicast.

  "Updates to the Opus Audio Codec", Jean-Marc Valin, Tim Terriberry, Koen
  Vos, 2013-07-12, <draft-valin-codec-opus-update-00.txt>

      This document addresses minor issues that were found in the
      specification of the Opus audio codec in RFC 6716 [RFC6716].

  "Multicast Traceroute for MVPNs", Robert Kebler, Pavan Kurapati,
  2013-07-12, <draft-kebler-kurapati-l3vpn-mvpn-mtrace-00.txt>

      Mtrace is a tool used to troubleshoot issues in a network deploying
      Multicast service.  When multicast is used within a VPN service
      offering, the base Mtrace specification does not detect the failures.
      This document specifies a method of using multicast traceroute in a
      network offering Multicast in VPN service.

  "A Framework for E-VPN Performance Monitoring", Lianshu Zheng, Zhenbin
  Li, 2013-07-12, <draft-zheng-l2vpn-evpn-pm-framework-00.txt>

      The capability of Ethernet VPN performance monitoring (PM) is
      important to meet the Service Level Agreement(SLA) for the service
      beared.  Since multipoint-to-point or multipoint-to-multipoint
      (MP2MP) network model applies, flow identifying is a big challenge
      for E-VPN PM.  This document specifies the framework and mechanisms
      for the application of E-VPN PM.

  "Multicast State Advertisement in E-VPN", Zhenbin Li, Junlin Zhang,
  2013-07-13, <draft-li-l2vpn-evpn-mcast-state-ad-00.txt>

      The document defines a new extended community to advertise the active
      or inactive state for multicast along with the Inclusive Multicast
      Ethernet Tag route or Ethernet A-D route in E-VPN.  The multicast
      state advertised can help optimization of multicast process in E-VPN
      to reduce unnecessary traffic replication for the broadcast, unknown
      unicast and multicast (BUM) traffic.

  "Secure Transport for PCEP", Diego Lopez, Oscar de Dios, 2013-07-13,
  <draft-lopez-pcp-pceps-00.txt>

      The Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) defines
      the mechanisms for the communication between a client and a PCE, or
      among PCEs.  This document describe the usage of Transport Layer
      Security to enhance PCEP security, hence the PCEPS acronym proposed
      for it.  The additional security mechanisms are provided by the
      transport protocol supporting PCEP, and therefore they do not affect
      its flexibility and extensibility.

  "Request Interface for Iterative Request Routing Redirection", Taesang
  Choi, John Shinn, Jonggyu Sung, Jongmin Lee, Ja-Ryeong Koo, Yong Bang,
  2013-10-20, <draft-choi-cdni-req-intf-01.txt>

      This document specifies the request interface between a CDN end-user
      and an upstream CDN or downstream CDN to request CDN request routing
      redirection.  It specifies the CDNI Request Interface information
      elements and the actual protocol for exchanging them.

  "GRE-in-UDP Encapsulation for Service Chaining", Lucy Yong, 2013-07-13,
  <draft-yong-gre-in-udp-encap-4-service-chaining-00.txt>

      This document proposes use of the GRE-in-UDP encapsulation [GRE-in-
      UDP] for the packet encapsulation in service chaining.

  "The case of dotless domains", S Moonesamy, 2013-07-13,
  <draft-moonesamy-dotless-domains-00.txt>

      The Charleston Road Registry sent a letter to the Internet
      Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers Board requesting
      permission to expand its application for ".search" to run that
      generic top-level domain (gTLD) as a dotless domain.
      
      This memo discusses about the case of the dotless domains in terms of
      the technical standards published by the IETF.

  "Multiple Provisioning Domain Architecture", Dmitry Anipko, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-anipko-mif-mpvd-arch-04.txt>

      This document is a product of the work of MIF architecture design
      team.  It outlines a solution framework for some of the issues,
      experienced by nodes that can be attached to multiple networks.  The
      framework defines the notion of a Provisioning Domain (PVD) - a
      consistent set of network configuration information, and PVD-aware
      nodes - nodes which learn PVDs from the attached network(s) and/or
      other sources and manage and use multiple PVDs for connectivity
      separately and consistently.

  "Alternate Tunnel Encapsulation for Data Frames in CAPWAP", Rong Zhang,
  Zehn Cao, Hui Deng, Rajesh Pazhyannur, Sri Gundavelli, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-zhang-opsawg-capwap-cds-01.txt>

      CAPWAP ([RFC5416]) defines two tunneling modes for encapsulating data
      frames from stations associated with WLAN: 802.3 Tunnel and 802.11
      Tunnel modes.  This document provides for an alternate tunnel
      encapsulation.  The alternate tunnel encapsulation allows 1) the WTP
      to tunnel non-management data frames to an endpoint different from
      the AC and 2) allows the WTP to tunnel using one of many known
      encapsulation types such as IP-IP, IP-GRE, CAPWAP.  The WTP may
      advertise support for Alternate Tunnel encapsulation during the
      discovery process and AC may select one of the supported Alternate
      Tunnel encapsulate types during the WTP configuration.  Further, the
      AC may configure WTP to enable the alternate tunnel encapsulation.

  "Connecting Home Networks via the social network GooglePlus", Cedric
  Dessez, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-dessez-homenet-googleplus-interconnect-01.txt,.pdf>

      This document describes an experimental implementation for connecting
      home networks via a social network.  The social network is used to
      extend the boundary of a single home network to include other home
      networks.  In this way, access to devices or services within a home
      can be granted among home networks based on their relation to one
      another within the social network.

  "MPLS Domain Wide Labels", Robert Raszuk, 2013-07-14,
  <draft-raszuk-mpls-domain-wide-labels-00.txt>

      This document describes a mechanism of using concept of Domain Wide
      MPLS Labels in parallel with any of the existing deployments using
      other label distribution and allocation methods where multi protocol
      label switching paradigm is used for transport.  Specifically it
      defines a new type of context label which can be used to
      differentiate lookup tables when using Domain Wide transport Labels
      from other downstream or upstream assigned transport labels.  The end
      result is creation of clean new label space in data plane allowing
      very easy and smooth migration to the number of applications choosing
      to use Domain Wide MPLS Labels.

  "IPv6 Prefix Sharing Protocol", Marco Spini, Roland Schott, 2013-07-14,
  <draft-schott-fmc-prefix-sharing-protocol-00.txt>

      IPv6 prefix sharing in policy for convergence applications makes it
      impossible to track individual quality of service requirements for
      each host by the policy server.  In order to enable it, we define a
      protocol which is based on the residential gateway sending some
      parameters such as IPv6 addresses of each host (3GPP UE or fixed
      host) to the edge router.  The edge router in its turn establishes
      IP-CAN sub-session for each host to receive the quality of service
      parameters.  The edge router enforces this quality of service which
      is specific to the host on its traffic both uplink and downlink.
      When the host disconnects or leaves the network, IP-CAN sub-session
      is terminated.

  "Analysis of MPTCP residual threats and possible fixes", Marcelo
  Bagnulo, Christoph Paasch, Fernando Gont, Olivier Bonaventure, Costin
  Raiciu, 2013-10-01, <draft-bagnulo-mptcp-attacks-01.txt>

      This documents performs an analysis of the residual threats for MPTCP
      and explores possible solutions to them.

  "Collection Tree Protocol for Lightweight On-demand Ad hoc Distance-
  vector Routing - Next Generation (LOADng-CT)", Jiazi Yi, Thomas Clausen,
  2013-10-20, <draft-yi-loadngct-01.txt>

      This document describes the Collection Tree Protocol for Lightweight
      Ad hoc On-Demand - Next Generation (LOADng-CT) to build routes from
      all the routers to a root in Mobile Ad Hoc NETworks (MANETs).  The
      protocol is an extension of LOADng.

  "Jitter Consideration for Reactive Protocols in Mobile Ad Hoc Networks
  (MANETs)", Jiazi Yi, Juan Fuertes, Thomas Clausen, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-yi-manet-reactive-jitter-01.txt>

      This document provides recommendations for jittering (randomly
      timing) of routing control message transmission, especially route
      request dissemination, in reactive protocol of Mobile Ad Hoc
      Networks, to reduce the probability of collisions, decrease routing
      overhead, and help finding the optimum routes in the network.

  "Smart Route Request for Lightweight On-demand Ad hoc Distance-vector
  Routing - Next Generation", Jiazi Yi, Thomas Clausen, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-yi-loadngsmartrreq-01.txt>

      This document describes the Smart Route Request extension for
      Lightweight Ad hoc On-Demand - Next Generation (LOADng) distance
      vector routing protocol.  It allows making use of discovered routing
      information to forward Route Request message, and helps reducing
      routing overhead in LOADng.

  "Analysis of LMP Security According to KARP Design Guide", Mahesh
  Jethanandani, 2013-07-14, <draft-mahesh-karp-lmp-analysis-00.txt>

      This document analyzes Link Management Protocol (LMP) according to
      guidelines set forth in section 4.2 of KARP Design Guidelines (RFC
      6518).

  "6TSCH Operation Sublayer (6top)", Qin Wang, Xavier Vilajosana, Thomas
  Watteyne, 2013-07-14, <draft-wang-6tsch-6top-00.txt>

      The recently published [IEEE802154e] standard formalizes the concept
      of link-layer resources in LLNs.  Nodes are synchronized and follow a
      schedule.  A time slot in that schedule corresponds to an atomic
      link-layer resource, and can be allocated to any pair of neighbors in
      the network.  This allows the schedule to be built to tightly match
      each node's bandwidth, latency and energy constraints, while ensuring
      collision-free communication.  The [IEEE802154e] standard does not,
      however, present a mechanism to do so, as building and managing the
      schedule is out of the standard's scope.  Routing layers such as the
      IETF IPv6 Routing Protocol for LLNs (RPL) provide a mechanism to
      route multipoint-to-point traffic (from devices inside the LLN
      towards a central control point) and point-to-multipoint traffic
      (from the central control point to the devices inside the LLN).
      Network layer overlays cannot be optimized and adapted to take
      advantage of the cell-based topology created by the underlying TSCH
      MAC layer as a missing set of functionalities need to be defined.
      This document describes the 6TSCH Operation Sublayer (6top) and the
      main commands it provides to upper network layers such as RPL or
      GMPLS.  The set of functionalities includes feedback metrics from
      cell states so network layers can take routing decisions, TSCH
      configuration and control procedures, and the support for centralized
      and decentralized scheduling policies.  In addition, 6top can be
      configured to enable packet switching at layer 2.5, analogous to
      GMPLS.  Once a multi-hop track is defined, input cells can be mapped
      to output cells and packets can be relayed without the need of higher
      layer routing. 6top defines the operations so input cells and output
      cells can be mapped and the configuration maintained.

  "Secure Caller-ID Fallback Mode", Eric Rescorla, 2013-07-14,
  <draft-rescorla-stir-fallback-00.txt>

      A major challenge with RFC 4474-style identity assertions has been
      that SIP operates in highly mediated and interworked environments.
      SIP requests may pass through gateways, policy enforcement devices or
      other entities that receive SIP requests and effectively act as user
      agents, re-initiating a request.  In these circumstances,
      intermediaries may recreate the fields protected by the RFC4474
      signature, making end-to end integrity impossible.  This document
      describes a mechanism for two compliant endpoints to exchange
      authentication data even in the face of intermediaries which remove
      all additional call signaling meta-data or which translate from SIP
      into protocols incapable of understanding identity meta-data (e.g.,
      where one side is the PSTN).

  "A Media-based Traceroute Function for the Session Initiation Protocol
  (SIP)", Hadriel Kaplan, 2013-07-14, <draft-straw-sip-traceroute-00.txt>

      SIP already provides the ability to perform hop-by-hop traceroute
      for SIP messages using the Max-Forwards header field, in order to
      determine the reachability path of requests to a target.  A
      mechanism for media-loopback calls has also been defined separately,
      which enables test calls to be generated which result in media being
      looped back to the originator.  This document describes a means of
      performing hop-by-hop traceroute-style test calls using the media-
      loopback mechanism, in order to test the media path when SIP
      sessions go through media-relaying B2BUAs.

  "Multicast Distribution Reachability Signaling", Huajin Jeng, Jeffrey
  Haas, Yakov Rekhter, Jeffrey Zhang, 2013-07-14,
  <draft-rekhter-mdrs-00.txt>

      This document describes a mechanism whereby a subscriber's Internet
      service provider may signal in BGP the ability of the subscriber
      network to receive content using multicast connectivity.  This
      mechanism is called Multicast Distribution Reachability Signaling
      (MDRS).

  "Multicast Distribution Control Signaling", Huajin Jeng, Jeffrey Haas,
  Yakov Rekhter, Jeffrey Zhang, 2013-07-14, <draft-rekhter-mdcs-00.txt>

      This document describes a mechanism whereby the BGP Flow
      Specification NLRI format may be utilized to distribute multicast
      Control Plane filters.  This mechanism is called Multicast
      Distribution Control Signaling (MDCS).

  "Information Elements for Application Layer Information Export", Peng
  Fan, 2013-07-29, <draft-fan-ipfix-content-info-ie-01.txt>

      This document specifies extended Information Elements used in the IP
      Flow Information Export (IPFIX) to export content related
      information.

  "Problem Statement for Reliable Virtualized Network Function (VNF)",
  Ning Zong, Linda Dunbar, Melinda Shore, 2013-09-05,
  <draft-zong-vnfpool-problem-statement-01.txt>

      Virtualization technology has been widely supported by both Network
      Operators and Data Center providers to provide service with reduced
      operational and capital costs, automated deployment, and enhanced
      elasticity.  A challenge is how to achieve the reliability and high
      availability capabilities of the virtualized network function to
      facilitate reliable service.
      
      This document focuses on the problems related to the reliability and
      high availability aspects of virtualized network function.  A
      discussion of reliable virtualized network function pools is
      presented for scoping solution purpose.  Some related works together
      with potential reuse and extension are also introduced.

  "Requirements for Application Layer Information Export in IP Flow
  Information Export (IPFIX)", Peng Fan, 2013-07-29,
  <draft-fan-ipfix-content-info-req-01.txt>

      This document specifies requirements for exporting application layer
      information using IPFIX.

  "Network Mobility Support in the Distributed Mobility Management", 
  xuan@dcn.ssu.ac.kr, Young-Han Kim, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-xuan-dmm-nemo-dmm-01.txt>

      Network mobility (NEMO) provides session continuity for mobile nodes
      (MN) while moving in vehicles without their involvement in signaling
      process. NEMO Basic support protocol [RFC3963] is standardized to
      provide network mobility support.
      
      Current mobility management protocols, such as MIPv6 [RFC6275] and
      PMIPv6 [RFC5213], rely on a central mobility anchor in order to
      provide mobility support for the mobile nodes. These centralized
      approaches show some big issues, such as a single point of failure,
      non-optimal routing, and scalability. Ever-increasing demand for the
      mobile traffic changes the network architecture from hierarchical to
      flat architecture, and distributed mobility management (DMM)
      approaches are being researched to adapt the new flat architecture
      and overcome big above issues.
      
      This document presents about detailed protocol operation to support
      network mobility in the DMM domain.

  "ASCII Encoding for Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP/A)", Seok-Kap
  Ko, Ilkyun Park, Seung-Hun Oh, Byoung-Tak Lee, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-softgear-core-coapa-00.txt>

      This document defines ASCII encoding method for Constrained
      Application Protocol(CoAP). CoAP has defined a binary encoding method
      to exchange requests and responses between constrained nodes or
      gateways. However, some communication modules in constrained nodes
      support ASCII data only. These modules are cheaper and widely
      deployed. To support these modules, this document describes the
      method to convert binary CoAP messages to base64 styled ASCII
      messages.

  "Label Sharing for Fast PE Protection", Mingui Zhang, Peng Zhou, Russ
  White, 2013-10-21, <draft-zhang-l3vpn-label-sharing-01.txt>

      This document describes a method to be used by Service Providers to
      provide fast protection of VPN connections for a CE. Egress PEs in a
      redundant group always assign the same label for VPN routes from a
      VRF. These egress PEs create a BGP virtual Next Hop (vNH) in the
      domain of the IP/MPLS backbone network as an agent of the CE router.
      Primary and backup tunnels terminated at the vNH are set up by the
      BGP/MPLS IP VPN based on IGP FRR. If the primary egress PE fails, the
      backup egress PEs can recognize the "shared" VPN route label, so that
      the failure affected traffic can be smoothly switched to the backup
      PE for delivery without changing its VPN route label.

  "ICCP Application TLVs for VPN Route Label Sharing", Mingui Zhang, Peng
  Zhou, 2013-07-15, <draft-zhang-pwe3-iccp-label-sharing-00.txt>

      This document defines TLVs under Inter-Chassis Communication Protocol
      (ICCP) to include a new application: Label Sharing for Fast PE
      Protection. Egress PEs in the same Redundant Group utilize the ICCP
      connection to negotiate the "VPN route label" and the "BGP next hop"
      for each VPN.

  "Use case analysis for supporting flow mobility in DMM", 
  gomjae@dcn.ssu.ac.kr, Young-Han Kim, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-sun-dmm-use-case-analysis-flowmob-dmm-01.txt>

      Distributed Mobility Management (DMM) allows network traffic to
      distribute among multiple mobility anchors which have mobility
      functions to solve the existing problems in current centralized
      mobility protocols. There are many DMM approaches extending network-
      based mobility protocols (e.g. Proxy Mobile IPv6).
      
      In Proxy Mobile IPv6 (PMIPv6) [RFC5213], they allow a mobile node to
      connect to PMIPv6 domain through different physical interfaces. In
      this reason, flow mobility that enables movement between physical
      interfaces of mobile node is proposed.
      
      In this document, we present some use cases to support flow mobility
      in DMM domain and analyze some problems. These use cases are based
      on scenarios of flow mobility in PMIPv6. In these scenarios, a
      multi-interface mobile node connects to different distributed
      mobility access points and move specific flows from one interface to
      another. These use cases have common issues which will be analyzed
      in detail.

  "Virtual Subnet: A L3VPN-based Subnet Extension Solution", KuiKe
  Building, Susan Hares, Fan Yongbing, Christian Jacquenet, Truman Boyes,
  Brendan Fee, 2013-09-08, <draft-xu-l3vpn-virtual-subnet-01.txt>

      This document describes a Layer3 Virtual Private Network (L3VPN)-
      based subnet extension solution referred to as Virtual Subnet, which
      can be used as a kind of Layer3 network virtualization overlay
      approach for data center interconnect.

  "HTTP 2.0 Extension for Multi-location Return for Redirection", Taesang
  Choi, John Shinn, Jongmin Lee, Ja-Ryeong Koo, Young-Il Seo, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-choi-httpbis-multi-location-return-00.txt>

      This document proposes a mechanism to enhance redirection mechanism
      of the HTTP1.1 so that it can improve the web service availability.

  "Shim Header for CoAP Transfer over non-TCP/IP Networks", Ilkyun Park,
  Seok-Kap Ko, Seung-Hun Oh, Byoung-Tak Lee, Namhi Kang, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-ikpark-core-shim-01.txt>

      This document defines shim header for the transfer of CoAP messages
      over non-TCP/IP constrained networks. In this environment, IP and UDP
      or TCP are not used, so that additional shim header as a container
      for addresses of sender/receiver and the length of CoAP header and
      its payload is required.

  "IP Flow Path Trace Requirements", Yuanbin Yin, Sheng Jiang, Gang Yan,
  2013-10-21, <draft-yin-tsvwg-ipflow-pathtrace-ps-01.txt>

      This document describes the requirements of IP flow path trace.
      Network administrators need to get the real IP flow path information,
      of which a specific IP flow goes through heterogeneous network
      environments.  It is also desired for more information relevant to
      the IP flow path.  Based on the information, network administrators
      can locate possible faults of the network quickly or optimize network
      resource for better network performance.

  "Use cases and Requirements for Virtual Service Node Pool Management",
  Liang Xia, Qin Wu, Daniel King, Hidetoshi Yokota, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-xia-vsnpool-management-use-case-01.txt>

      Network edge appliances such as subscriber termination, firewalls,
      tunnel switching, intrusion detection, and routing are currently
      provided using dedicated network function hardware.  As network
      function is migrated from dedicated hardware platforms into a
      virtualized environment, a set of use cases with application specific
      requirements begin to emerge.  These use cases and requirements cover
      a broad range of capability and objectives, which will require
      detailed investigation and documentation in order to identify
      relevant architecture, protocol and procedure solutions.
      
      This document provides an analysis of the key management requirements
      for applications that may be hosted within a virtualized environment.
      These engineering requirements are based on a variety of uses cases
      and goals , which include: virtual application security, reliability,
      scalability, performance, operation and automation.
      
      Note that this document is not intended to provide or recommend
      protocol solutions.

  "MultiProtocol Label Switching (MPLS) Source Label", Mach Chen, KuiKe
  Building, Zhenbin Li, Luyuan Fang, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-chen-mpls-source-label-01.txt>

      An MultiProtocol Label Switching (MPLS) label is originally defined
      to identify a Forwarding Equivalence Class (FEC), a packet is
      assigned to a specific FEC based on its network layer destination
      address.  It's difficult or even impossible to derive the source
      information from the label.  For some applications, source
      identification is a critical requirement.  For example, performance
      monitoring, traffic matrix measurement and collection, where the
      monitoring node needs to identify where a packet was sent from.
      
      This document introduces the concept of Source Label (SL) that is
      carried in the label stack and used to identify the ingress Label
      Switching Router (LSR) of an Label Switched Path (LSP).

  "Extension Use Cases and Requirements for ALTO", Haibin Song, Young Lee,
  Victor Lopez, Diego Lopez, Deng Lingli, Wei Chen, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-song-alto-usecase-ext-00.txt>

      This document describes new usecases for ALTO, and identifie its
      related requirements to extend the ALTO protocol.  The use cases in
      this document include overlay routing, NaaS, data center information,
      and P2P cache.

  "Authenticating version 3 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
  (SNMPv3) using HMAC-SHA-2 procedures", Sam Hartman, Margaret Wasserman,
  Dacheng Zhang, Manav Bhatia, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-hartman-snmp-sha2-00.txt>

      This document describes the mechanism to authenticate SNMPv3 protocol
      packets using Hashed Message Authentication Mode (HMAC) with the
      SHA-256, SHA-384, and SHA-512 algorithms.

  "DNSxL Email Authentication Method Extension", Ale, 2013-08-01,
  <draft-vesely-authmethod-dnswl-01.txt>

      This document describes a method that can be registered within the
      Email Authentication Methods IANA registry created by RFC 5451.  The
      method consists in looking up a DNS white or black list, and
      interpreting any returned data.

  "Service Chaining Header and Service Chaining Mechanism", Lehong Niu,
  Hongyu Li, Yuanlong Jiang, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-niu-service-chaining-header-00.txt>

      This document describes a service chaining mechanism, which is used
      to indicate the data packets going through multiple Service
      Processing Entities and processed by those Service Processing
      Entities with preset order. This document also provides a new service
      chaining header encapsulation for packets in a service chain. The
      system can get the information of the next Service Processing Entity
      where the data packet should go by checking the service chaining
      header.

  "Running Multiple IPv6 Prefixes", Bing Liu, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-liu-v6ops-running-multiple-prefixes-00.txt>

      This document introduces that multiple prefixes in one network/host
      might be common in IPv6, and describes several multiple prefixes use
      cases. Then some operational considerations and current gaps to
      support multiple prefixes operations are described.

  "The Problems of Service Configuration in NFV Context", Haibin Song,
  2013-07-15, <draft-song-appsawg-service-template-00.txt>

      This document describes the problem space of virtual function
      installation and dynamic configuration in network function
      virtulization (NFV) context.  And identify the scope that needs
      standardization.

  "Probelm Statement for MTU Configuration", Vic Liu, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-liu-rtgwg-mtu-config-ps-00.txt>

      This document describes problem statement of MTU configuration IP and
      MPLS network along with the test case and result in multi-vendor
      network.  Necessary considerations and recommendation are also
      discussed.

  "Using ICN in disaster scenarios", Mayutan Arumaithurai, Jan Seedorf,
  Atsushi Tagami, K. Ramakrishnan, Nicola Blefari-Melazzi, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-seedorf-icn-disaster-01.txt>

      Information Centric Networking is a new paradigm where the network
      provides users with named content, instead of communication channels
      between hosts.  This document outlines some research directions for
      Information Centric Networking (ICN) with respect to applying ICN
      approaches for coping with natural or human-generated, large-scale
      disasters.

  "Performance Engineered LSPs using the Segment Routing Data-Plane", Rob
  Shakir, Danny Vernals, Alessandro Capello, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-shakir-rtgwg-sr-performance-engineered-lsps-00.txt>

      A number of applications and services running over IP/MPLS networks
      have strict requirements relating to their routing, or the
      performance of the path supporting their traffic flow, for instance,
      in terms of characteristics such as latency, loss, or bandwidth
      availability.  Segment routing provides a means by which the data-
      plane of an IP/MPLS network can be programmed to support such
      "performance engineered" paths.  This document describes an
      architecture for the use of such performance engineered label
      switched paths, and the control-plane functionality required to allow
      both distributed and centralised computation of acceptable forwarding
      paths.

  "Role-Based State Advertisement for Multicast in MPLS/BGP IP VPNs",
  Zhenbin Li, Hui Ni, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-li-l3vpn-mvpn-role-state-ad-00.txt>

      The document defines a new type of Intra-AS I-PMSI A-D route to
      advertise the role and corresponding primary/backup state for
      Multicast in MPLS/BGP IP VPNs.  The role-based state advertisement
      can help optimization of process in MPLS/BGP Multicast VPN to reduce
      unnecessary traffic replication and facilitate service provision.

  "NEXTHOP_PATH ATTIBUTE for BGP", Zhenbin Li, Li Zhang, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-zhang-idr-nexthop-path-attr-00.txt>

      As the BGP is deployed in a single Autonomous System for network
      convergence such as Seamless MPLS, it is desirable for BGP to carry
      more information to help select routing more intelligently.  It can
      reduce the cost proposed by complex policy control design on BGP
      routes and adapt to network change easily.  This document proposed a
      new path attribute for BGP routes that can record the next hop path
      for the route to help BGP route selection and network management.

  "RSVP-TE Extensions for Bit Error Rate (BER) Measurement", Zhenbin Li,
  Li Zhang, 2013-07-15, <draft-zhang-ccamp-rsvpte-ber-measure-00.txt>

      In the mobile backhaul network, the mobile service is sensitive to
      Bit Error Rate (BER).  When the BER value of the service exceeds the
      threshold, the Base Station will stop working and the User Equipments
      (UEs) cannot obtain voice and data services anymore.  Now the mobile
      backhaul tends to be IP/MPLS network and MPLS TE LSP is used to bear
      the mobile service which may be encapsulated in PW or L3VPN end to
      end.  Then the ingress Label Switched Router (LSR) of the MPLS TE LSP
      needs to get information on BER along the path of the LSP.  This
      document proposes new extensions of RSVP-TE to advertise the BER
      measurement requirement of the specific LSP to all of the transit
      LSRs and the egress LSR, and to report the BER measurement result
      from any transit or egress LSR towards the ingress LSR.

  "A Distributed Resource Directory (DRD)", Jaime Jimenez, Meirong Liu,
  Erkki Harjula, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-jimenez-distributed-resource-directory-00.txt>

      In some M2M scenarios, it is convenient to offer non-centralized
      alternatives for discovery and rendezvous.  This document defines a
      Distributed Resource Directory (DRD) for Constrained Application
      Protocol (CoAP).  Distribution is achieved by means of a structured
      Peer-to-Peer (P2P) overlay.  The DHT-based P2P overlay provides
      discovery, rendezvous and caching services for CoAP End-points as
      well as HTTP proxy service for Web clients.

  "Problem statement and Use cases of Sleepy node in Constrained node
  networks", Yung Hong, Joo-Sang Youn, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-hong-lwig-sleepynode-problem-statement-01.txt>

      This document describes the use cases of communication considering
      sleepy nodes and the problems of connecting to sleepy nodes in
      constrained node networks.  The use cases of communications between
      sleepy nodes and non-sleepy nodes are classified by the end-to-end
      communication and the network topology.  The adopt of power saving in
      constrained nodes raises compelling problems in network layer/
      transport/application layer.  In this document, problems of each
      layer in a sleepy node are described.

  "IGP extension for PCEP transport capability support in the PCE
  discovery", Wenson Wu, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-wu-pce-discovery-priority-allocation-01.txt>

      [RFC5088][RFC5089] define a method to advertise path computation
      capabilities using IGP flooding.  OSPF and ISIS are extended to
      support such capabilities advertisement.  However
      [RFC5088][RFC5089]don't provide a method to advertise PCEP over TLS
      support capability.
      
      This document proposes new capability flag bit for PCE-CAP-FLAGS sub-
      TLV that can be announced as attribute in the IGP advertisement
      (defined in [RFC5088 ][RFC5089]) to distribute transport support
      information.

  "Problem statement for Verification of Network Service Chains", Seungik
  Lee, Myung-Ki Shin, Yoon-Chul Choi, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-lee-nsc-verification-problem-statement-01.txt>

      This document addresses the possible conflicts between service
      overlays in the network service chaining.  These conflicts are due to
      overlapping in classification rules and resource sharing of service
      overlays.  The verification of service chains provides a method for
      network administrators to detect such conflicts and correct a
      problematic service chain before applying it on the real network.

  "The Applicability Analysis of Traffic Engineering over Trill", Gang
  Chen, Chen Li, 2013-07-15, <draft-chen-trill-te-applicability-00.txt>

      This memo intended to describe the needs of Traffic Engineering (TE)
      in a Data Center Network (DCN) in which Transparent Interconnection
      of Lots of Links (Trill) has been adopted.  Several use cases have
      been proposed to demonstrate the usage while the feasibility of Trill
      extension has been evaluated.  It serves to motivate the normative
      work subsequently.

  "Lightweight 4over6 Deployment with DHCPv4 over DHCPv6", Cong Liu, Qi
  Sun, 2013-10-21, <draft-liu-softwire-lw4over6-dhcp-deployment-01.txt>

      Lightweight 4over6 is designed to support several dynamic
      provisioning protocols.  This document discusses how to deploy
      Lightweight 4over6 using DHCPv4 over DHCPv6 as the provisioning
      protocol.

  "Deployment Considerations for Information-Centric Networking",
  EunKyoung Paik, Won-Dong Yun, Taekyoung Kwon,  hgchoi@mmlab.snu.ac.kr,
  2013-07-15, <draft-paik-icn-deployment-considerations-00.txt>

      The objective of ICN RG is to produce documents such as a survey of
      diverse approaches, problem statement, and reference scenario.  This
      document provides deployment issues of ICN considering its migration
      techniques and coexistance environement with legacy network
      technologies.

  "IPv6 Prefix Meta-data and Usage", Maico Le Pape, Cisco Systems, Ian
  Farrer, 2013-07-15, <draft-lepape-6man-prefix-metadata-00.txt>

      This document presents a method for applications to influence the
      IPv6 source selection algorithm used by the IP stack in a host.  To
      do so, IPv6 prefixes are associated with meta-data when configured by
      the network.  This meta-data allows the network to describe the
      purpose and properties of the prefix enabling applications to make
      intelligent decision when selecting a prefix.

  "Detecting NVO3 Overlay Data Plane failures", Nagendra Kumar, Carlos
  Pignataro, Dhananjaya Rao, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-kumar-nvo3-overlay-ping-00.txt>

      This document describes a simple and efficient mechanism to perform
      L2 or L3 VN Context validation and to detect any data plane failures
      in IPv4 or IPv6 based overlay network providing L2 or L3 virtualized
      network.

  "Scenarios for CoAP on non-UDP Transports", Markus Becker, Thomas
  Poetsch, Koojana Kuladinithi, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-becker-core-transport-scenarios-00.txt>

      Several drafts in the CoRE WG are discussing the usage of CoAP on
      non-UDP/IP transports already.  There are various use cases for non-
      UDP/IP transports.  In order to structure the discussion, this draft
      introduces new terminology and transport scenarios.

  "Performance Metrics Registry", Benoit Claise, Aamer Akhter, 2013-10-04,
  <draft-claise-ippm-perf-metric-registry-01.txt>

      This document specifies an IANA registry for Performance Metrics, for
      both active monitoring and passive monitoring, along with the initial
      content.  This document also gives a set of guidelines for
      Performance Metrics requesters and reviewers.

  "Data Center Benchmarking Methodology", Jacob Rapp, Lucien Avramov,
  2013-07-15, <draft-bmwg-dcbench-methodology-01.txt>

      The purpose of this informational document is to establish test and
      evaluation methodology and measurement techniques for network
      equipment in the data center.

  "Yang Data Model for BGP Protocol", Alex, Keyur Patel, Alex Clemm,
  2013-07-15, <draft-zhdankin-netmod-bgp-cfg-00.txt>

      This document defines a YANG data model that can be used to configure
      and manage BGP.

  "An SNMP MIB extension to RFC3591 to manage optical parameters, alarms
  and performance monitoring of DWDM applications", Ruediger Kunze,
  2013-07-29, <draft-galikunze-ccamp-opt-imp-snmp-mib-01.txt>

      This memo defines a module of the Management Information Base (MIB)
      used by Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) in TCP/IP- based
      internets.  In particular, it defines objects for managing Optical
      parameters associated with Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexing
      (DWDM) interfaces or characterized by the Optical Transport Network
      (OTN).  This is an extension of the RFC3591 to support the optical
      parameters mainly but not only described in recommendations like
      ITU-T G.698.2.  [ITU.G698.2]
      
      The MIB module defined in this memo can be used for Optical
      Parameters monitoring and/or configuration of the endpoints of Black
      Links.

  "Accession to the ITRs Considered Harmful", A. Rutkowski, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-rutkowski-itr-accession-harmful-00.txt>

      One of the treaties maintained by the International Telecommunication
      Union is the International Telecommunication Regulations (ITRs), whose
      purpose historically has been to create international service
      uniformity and a global monopoly cartel for provisioning legacy
      international telecommunication services. Nations such as the U.S.
      and Canada have typically neither signed them nor accepted their
      provisions. The 1988 version of the ITRs was similar in purpose and
      effect, but failed in its objectives because the mandated OSI
      services and ITU-T standards were unsuccessful in the marketplace. In
      addition, most of the world's Nation-States moved away from monopoly
      government-run telecom provisioning to competitive market models.
      This also resulted in a substantial decline of the ITU itself as an
      intergovernmental home for monopoly Nation-State providers.
      
      Given this institutional decline and the vestigial opposition of some
      ITU Members to this provisioning paradigm shift, efforts were begun a
      decade ago by some ITU participants and officials to imbue the ITU
      with a vast expansion of its scope and jurisdiction and impose new
      regulatory controls through revisions to the moribund ITRs. Most
      progressive national Administrations opposed these efforts. The
      conflict played out in Dec 2012 in Dubai at a global treaty conference
      known as the WCIT.
      
      Only 89 of the ITU 193 member nations signed the resulting treaty
      instrument at Dubai - largely those without significant national
      communication infrastructure, or those favoring strong regulatory
      regimes for Internet use. The result was an embarrassing
      miscalculation for those seeking these changes. It bifurcated the
      treaty basis for the ITU. This document analyses the many adverse
      effects of the resulting treaty, and identifies problems that may
      arise for those states acceding to the treaty. It concludes by noting
      how the Internet community, including citizens of non-signatory
      countries, benefit from the rejection of this broken treaty
      instrument.

  "ICC Based TLVs for MPLS-TP OAM Functions", Zhenlong Cui, Rolf Winter,
  Lianshu Zheng, Mach Chen, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-cui-mpls-tp-oam-tlv-icc-00.txt>

      This document specifies identifier TLVs for the Multiprotocol Label
      Switching Transport Profile (MPLS-TP).  Several IP-compatible TLVs
      have already been defined.  This document extends the existing set of
      identifier TLVs based on MPLS-TP identifiers following ITU-T
      conventions.

  "Packet-oriented QoS management model for a wireless Access Point",
  Sebastien Jobert, Isabelle Hamchaoui, William Diego, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-jobert-iccrg-ip-aware-ap-00.txt>

      This document introduces a packet-oriented QoS management model
      applicable to a wireless Access Point, referred to as "IP aware
      Access Point". This model may be used in addition, or as a
      substitute to the connection-oriented traditional QoS model defined
      for cellular mobile networks, based on the notion of bearer.

  "Traffic Class Routing Protocol in Home Networks", Mingwei Xu, Shu Yang,
  Jianping Wu, Fred Baker, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-xu-homenet-traffic-class-01.txt>

      Home IT staff is generally unfamiliar with network operations, making
      it desirable to provide a configuration-free mode of operation.
      Policy-based routing (in the sense of configuring one router to
      redirect traffic to another based on access control) and multi-
      topology routing both require configuration, making them undesirable.
      
      In this document, we propose a configuration-free mechanism, in which
      packets will be routed towards the corresponding upstream ISPs based
      on both destination and source addresses.

  "HTTP/2.0: Header Reference Set Definition", Herve Ruellan, Jun
  Fujisawa, Romain Bellessort, Youenn Fablet, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-ruellan-reference-set-definition-00.txt>

      This document describes modifications of the proposed HTTP/2.0 header
      compression mechanism for the definition of the reference set used to
      encode a set of headers.

  "Quantifying Head-of-Line Blocking in TCP and SCTP", Michael Scharf,
  Sebastian Kiesel, 2013-07-15, <draft-scharf-tcpm-reordering-00.txt>

      In order to quantify the impact of head-of-line blocking on
      application latencies, this memo provides simple analytical models
      for a "back of the envelop" estimation of the delay impact for
      reliable transport over a single TCP connection, multiple TCP
      connections, multiple SCTP streams, and unordered transport.

  "SSRC Group Based Simulcast Signaling", Suhas Nandakumar, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-nandakumar-mmusic-rtcweb-grouping-00.txt>

      In some applications it may be necessary to send multiple media
      encodings corresponding to a media source with in independent RTP
      media streams.  This is called Simulcast.  This document discusses a
      framework for describing simulcast media streams in SDP and also
      defines semantics to express relationship amongst them.  The
      semantics defined in this document are to be used with the source
      specific grouping framework defined in the [RFC5576]

  "A YANG Data Model for Network Topologies", Alex Clemm, Hariharan
  Ananthakrishnan, Jan Medved, Tony Tkacik, Robert Varga, Nitin Bahadur,
  2013-10-21, <draft-clemm-netmod-yang-network-topo-01.txt>

      This document defines a YANG data model for network topologies.

  "Extended DTLS Session Resumption for Constrained Network Environments",
  Rene Hummen, Johannes Gilger, Hossein Shafagh, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-hummen-dtls-extended-session-resumption-01.txt>

      This draft defines two extensions for the existing session resumption
      mechanisms of TLS that specifically apply to Datagram TLS (DTLS) in
      constrained network environments.  Session resumption type
      negotiation enables the client and the server to explicitly agree on
      the session resumption mechanism for subsequent handshakes, thus
      avoiding unnecessary overheads occurring with the existing
      specifications.  Session resumption without client-side state
      additionally enables a constrained DTLS client to resume a session
      without the need to maintain state while the session is inactive.
      The extensions defined in this draft update [RFC5077] and [RFC5246].

  "Extension to the Link Management Protocol (LMP/DWDM -rfc4209) for Dense
  Wavelength Division Multiplexing (DWDM) Optical Line Systems to manage
  optical parameters of DWDM applications", Dharini Hiremagalur, Gert
  Grammel, John Drake, Gabriele Galimberti, Zafar Ali, Ruediger Kunze,
  2013-07-15, <draft-dharinigert-ccamp-opt-imp-lmp-00.txt>

      This memo defines extensions to LMP(rfc4209) for managing Optical
      parameters associated with Wavelength Division Multiplexing (WDM)
      systems or characterized by the Optical Transport Network (OTN) in
      accordance with the parameters defined in ITU-T Recommendation
      G.698.2.[ITU.G698.2], G.694.1.[ITU.G694.1] and their extensions./>

  "TWAMP Control of a TCP Connection", Al Morton, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-morton-ippm-twamp-tcp-00.txt>

      This memo describes a feature for the core specification of TWAMP -
      the Two-Way Active Measurement Protocol: an optional capability where
      a TCP connection can be coordinated between two participating hosts.
      The feature includes the ability to control TCP configuration
      settings and byte stream characteristics, enabling diagnostic
      testing.

  "I2RS use case for IPv6 transition", Dapeng Liu, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-liu-i2rs-ipv6-use-case-00.txt>

      This document discusses the use cases of I2RS in IPv4/IPv6 transition
      scenario.

  "Mobility Support for Mobile Router", Dapeng Liu, Hui Deng, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-liu-its-mobility-00.txt>

      This document proposes a ITS mobility solution.  The solution is
      based on extensions to current IP mobility protocol.

  "Economical Use of the Offer/Answer Model in Sessions with Multiple
  Media Sources", Emil Ivov, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-ivov-mmusic-multiple-sources-00.txt>

      The Session Description Protocol (SDP) Offer/Answer model describes a
      mechanism that allows two entities to negotiate a multimedia session.
      The SDP syntax of the Offer/Answer model uses constructs known as
      media (m=) lines to describe each medium.  In SDP itself these "m="
      lines were designed to describe RTP sessions with any number of
      streams (SSRCs).  Yet, Offer/Answer implementations in SIP
      applications have most often used them as an envelope for a maximum
      of two RTP streams (SSRCs) at a time: one in each direction.  The
      most common reason for this has been the fact these applications
      could not meaningfully render multiple SSRCs simultaneously.
      
      The above situation has led to difficulties once the need to
      represent multiple (SSRCs) in an interoperable manner became more
      common.
      
      This document explores the use of "m=" lines for the negotiation of
      sessions with multiple media sources, as per their original design in
      SDP.  It presents the advantages of such an approach as well as the
      challenges that it implies in terms of interoperability with already
      deployed legacy devices.
      
      The model described here was first presented in the RTCWEB No Plan
      proposal.  The reason to spin it off into this new document is mainly
      to separate the parts related to Offer/Answer and "m=" line
      semantics, from those that are specific to WebRTC.

  "IP Prefix Advertisement in E-VPN", Jorge Rabadan, Jorge Rabadan, Wim
  Henderickx, Senad Palislamovic, Senad Palislamovic, Florin Balus, Florin
  Balus, Aldrin Isaac, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-rabadan-l2vpn-evpn-prefix-advertisement-01.txt>

      E-VPN provides a flexible control plane that allows intra-subnet
      connectivity in an IP/MPLS and/or an NVO-based network. In Data
      Centers, there is also a need for a dynamic and efficient inter-
      subnet connectivity across Tenant Systems and End Devices that can be
      physical or virtual and may not support their own routing protocols.
      This document defines a new E-VPN route type for the advertisement of
      IP Prefixes and explains some use-case examples where this new route-
      type is used.

  "Data Center Interconnect Solution for E-VPN Overlay networks", Jorge
  Rabadan, Wim Henderickx, Senthil Sathappan, Senad Palislamovic, Florin
  Balus, 2013-07-15, <draft-rabadan-l2vpn-dci-evpn-overlay-00.txt>

      This document describes how Network Virtualization Overlay networks
      (NVO3) can be connected to a Wide Area Network (WAN) in order to
      extend the layer-2 connectivity required for some tenants. The
      solution will analyze the interaction between NVO3 networks running
      E-VPN and other technologies used in the WAN, such as VPLS/PBB-VPLS
      or E-VPN/PBB-EVPN.

  "Recommendations for FTP Clients and Servers in the IPv6/IPv4 Transition
  Scenario", Dapeng Liu, Iljitsch van Beijnum, Hui Deng, Zhen Cao,
  2013-07-15, <draft-liu-ftpext2-ftp64-00.txt>

      The File transfer protocol, which was originally defined in RFC 114
      and published in 1971, well before TCP and IP were created.  However,
      it is still in wide use.  Many FTP servers implement RFC 959, which
      requires IPv4.  RFC 2428 defines extensions that allow FTP to work
      over IPv6 by introducing the EPRT and EPSV commands.  When IPv6 FTP
      clients attempt to communicate with IPv4 FTP servers through an
      IPv6-IPv4 translator, only certain combinations of FTP client and
      server behavior lead to successful file transfers.  This document
      proposes the best current practice for IPv6 FTP client
      implementations in the IPv6-IPv4 translation scenario, allowing file
      transfers to succeed without the presence of an ALG (Application
      Layer Gateway).

  "A Unified Plan for Using SDP with Large Numbers of Media Flows", Adam
  Roach, Justin Uberti, Martin Thomson, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-roach-mmusic-unified-plan-00.txt>

      A recurrent theme in emerging real-time communications use cases,
      such as RTCWEB, has been the need to handle very large numbers of
      media flows.  Unfortunately, naive uses of SDP do not handle this
      case particularly well.  This document describes a modest set of
      extensions to SDP which allow it to cleanly handle arbitrary numbers
      of flows while still retaining a large degree of backward
      compatibility with existing and non-RTCWEB endpoints.

  "TRILL: Interface Addresses APPsub-TLV", Donald Eastlake, Li Yizhou,
  Radia Perlman, 2013-10-20, <draft-eastlake-trill-ia-appsubtlv-03.txt>

      This document specifies a TRILL (Transparent Interconnection of Lots
      of Links) IS-IS application sub-TLV that enables the reporting by a
      TRILL switch of sets of addresses such that all of the addresses in
      each set designate the same interface (port). For example, an EUI-48
      MAC (Extended Unique Identifier 48-bit, Media Access Control)
      address, IPv4 address, and IPv6 address can be reported as all
      corresponding to the same interface. Such information could be use in
      some cases to synthesize responses to or by-pass the need for the
      Address Resolution Protocol (ARP), the IPv6 Neighbor Discovery (ND)
      protocol, or the flooding of unknown MAC addresses.

  "Conformance tests for Multipath TCP", Yvan Coene, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-coene-mptcp-conformance-00.txt>

      This document describes a series of tests which aim at evaluating the
      compliance of Multipath TCP (MPTCP) implementations to [RFC6824].
      The current version of this document focuses on the conformance of
      the three-way handshake.  Subsequent versions of the document will
      contain tests for the other parts of the protocol.

  "LISP Extensions for Segment Routing", Frank Brockners, Cisco Systems,
  Fabio Maino, Darrel Lewis, 2013-07-15, <draft-brockners-lisp-sr-00.txt>

      Segment Routing (SR) combines source routing and tunneling to steer
      traffic through the transit network.  The Locator/ID Separation
      Protocol (LISP) separates IP addresses into Endpoint Identifiers
      (EIDs) and Routing Locators (RLOCs) and also leverages tunneling
      mechanisms.  Mapping between EIDs and RLOCs is facilitated by the
      LISP mapping system.  Combining LISP and SR enables the LISP mapping
      system to provide SR information to encapsulating routers so that
      traffic can be steered in the transit network or the list of segments
      a particular packet traverses is recorded in the packet header.
      
      This document describes extensions required to the Locator/ID
      Separation Protocol (LISP) to enable a LISP mapping system to
      communicate list of segment identifiers or the request to record the
      list of segments a particular packet traverses to the encapsulating
      router.

  "Interface to the Routing System (I2RS) for Service Chaining: Use Cases
  and Requirements", Nabil Bitar, Giles Heron, Luyuan Fang, ramki, Nicolai
  Leymann, Himanshu Shah, Wassim Haddad, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-bitar-i2rs-service-chaining-00.txt>

      Service chaining is the concept of applying an ordered set of
      services to a packet or a flow. Services in the chain may
      include network services such as load-balancing, firewalling,
      intrusion prevention, and routing among others. Criteria for
      applying a service chain to a packet or flow can be based on
      packet/flow attributes that span the OSI layers (e.g., physical
      port, Ethernet MAC header information, IP header information,
      Transport and application layer information). This document
      describes use cases and I2RS (Information to the Rousting
      System) requirements for the discovery and maintenance of
      services topology and resources. It also describes use cases
      and I2RS requirements for controlling the forwarding of a
      packet/flow along a service chain based on packet/flow
      attributes.

  "Aggregating large-scale measurements for Application Layer Traffic
  Optimization (ALTO) Protocol", David Goergen, R State, Vijay Gurbani,
  2013-07-15, <draft-goergen-lmap-fcc-00.txt>

      Analyzing and aggregating large-scale broadband measurements is
      essential to study trends and derive network analytics.  These trends
      and analyses could be made available through well defined protocols
      such as the Application Layer Traffic Optimization (ALTO) protocol.
      However, ALTO requires network information to be distilled and
      abstracted in form of a network map and a cost map.  We describe our
      methodology for analyzing the United States Federal Communication
      Commission's (FCC) Measuring Broadband America (MBA) dataset to
      derive required topology and cost maps suitable for consumption by an
      ALTO server.

  "SDN Layers and Architecture Terminology", Evangelos Haleplidis, Spyros
  Denazis, Kostas Pentikousis, Jamal Hadi Salim, Odysseas Koufopavlou,
  2013-09-30, <draft-haleplidis-sdnrg-layer-terminology-01.txt>

      Software-Defined Networking (SDN) is a new approach for network
      programmability.  Network programmability refers to the ability to
      control, change, and manage network behavior dynamically through
      software via open interfaces as opposed to relying on closed boxes
      and propietary defined interfaces.  SDN introduces an abstraction for
      the data forwarding plane and by doing so separates it from the
      control plane.  This separation allows faster innovation cycles at
      both planes as experience has already shown.  However, there is
      increasing confusion as to what exactly SDN is, what is the layer
      structure in an SDN architecture and how do layers interface with
      each other.  This document does not aim to standardize any layers or
      interfaces but rather aims to answer these questions and provide a
      concise reference document for SDNRG in particular and the SDN
      community in general.

  "ICMPv6 Destination Unreachable due Sleep", Teemu Savolainen,
  2013-07-15, <draft-savolainen-6man-icmp-destination-sleeping-00.txt>

      A destination node may be unreachable due being in sleep mode that
      lasts longer than is feasible to buffer a packet in a network or at
      the last hop entity, such as a router of a link.  In such scenarios
      the originator of the packet can be better off knowing destination's
      sleep being the cause of destination unreachable ICMPv6 message
      emitted by the entity dropping the packet.  This document defines an
      ICMPv6 Code value for indicating Destination Unreachable due sleep.

  "Liveliness and Cancellation of Separate Responses and Observations",
  Klaus Hartke, 2013-07-15, <draft-hartke-core-coap-liveliness-00.txt>

      This document extends the Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP)
      with a simple mechanism for a client to determine the "liveliness" of
      a request for which it is still expecting a response or a
      notification, and with a mechanism to request the cancellation of
      such a request.

  "Authentication, Authorization and Policy Management for Routing
  Protocols",  william.atwood@concordia.ca, Revathi Somanatha, Sam
  Hartman, Dacheng Zhang, 2013-07-15, <draft-atwood-karp-aapm-rp-00.txt>

      When tightening the security of the core routing infrastructure, one
      requirement is to ensure that the keying material for the routing
      protocol exchanges is distributed only to the appropriate routers.
      This document specifies requirements on the authentication and
      authorization of routers and proposes the use of policy distribution
      to achieve those requirements.

  "A YANG Data Model for Network Topologies", Jan Medved, Nitin Bahadur,
  Alex Clemm, Hariharan Ananthakrishnan, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-medved-yang-network-topo-00.txt>

      This document defines the information model for network topologies.

  "Broadcast With Network Coding: DRAGONCAST", Cedric Adjih, Songyean Cho,
  Emmanuel Baccelli, 2013-07-15, <draft-adjih-dragoncast-00.txt>

      This document describes a Network Coding (NC) based broadcast
      protocol suitable mainly for wireless networks, including mobile ad
      hoc networks (MANET).  It provides data dissemination from a single
      source, based on intra-flow network coding and for Internet Protocol
      (IP).  It is designed to minimize the assumptions over the working
      environment and thus may operates over dynamically evolving
      environments.

  "ALTO Topology Considerations", Yang Yang, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-yang-alto-topology-00.txt>

      The Application-Layer Traffic Optimization (ALTO) Service has defined
      Network and Cost maps to provide basic network information.  In this
      document, we discuss some initial thinking on adding topology in
      ALTO.

  "DNSSEC Roadblock Avoidance", Wesley Hardaker, Olafur Gudmundsson,
  Suresh Krishnaswamy, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-hardaker-dnsop-dnssec-roadblock-avoidance-00.txt>

      This document describes problems that a DNSSEC aware resolver/
      application might run into to non-compliant infrastructure.  It poses
      potential detection and mitigation techniques.  The scope of the
      document is to create a shared approaches to detect and overcome
      network issues that a DNSSEC software/system may face.

  "Two-Way Active Measurement Protocol (TWAMP) Management Information Base
  (MIB)", Tamas Elteto, Greg Mirsky, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-elteto-ippm-twamp-mib-00.txt>

      This document defines a portion of the Management Information Base
      (MIB) for use with network management protocols in the Internet
      community.  In particular, it defines Management Information Base of
      Two-Way Active Measurement Protocol [RFC5357] for both Control and
      Test protocols.

  "Using DANE to Associate OTR public keys with email addresses", Paul
  Wouters, 2013-10-21, <draft-wouters-dane-otrfp-01.txt>

      The Off-The-Record Messaging protocol (OTR) exchanges public keys in-
      band.  This document describes how to use DANE to securely associate
      an Instant Message user identified by their email address with an OTR
      public key.  This association helps to authenticate users and protect
      against MITM attacks.

  "Using DANE to Associate OpenPGP public keys with email addresses", Paul
  Wouters, 2013-10-21, <draft-wouters-dane-openpgp-01.txt>

      OpenPGP is a message format for email (and file) encryption, that
      lacks a standarized lookup mechanism to obtain OpenPGP public keys.
      This document specifies a standarized method for securely publishing
      and locating OpenPGP public keys in DNS using a new OPENPGPKEY DNS
      Resource Record.

  "Multicast state damping", Thomas Morin, Stephane Litkowski, Keyur
  Patel, Jeffrey Zhang, Robert Kebler, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-morin-multicast-damping-00.txt>

      This document describes procedures to damp multicast routing state
      changes and prevent the churn due to the multicast dynamicity at the
      edge of a network.  The procedures described in this document help
      avoid uncontrolled control plane load increase on the core routing
      infrastructure.  New procedures are proposed inspired from BGP
      unicast route damping principles, but adapted to multicast.  They
      cover multicast and multicast in VPNs contexts.

  "Private Autonomous System (AS) Removal Requirements", Jon Mitchell,
  2013-07-15, <draft-mitchell-grow-remove-private-as-00.txt>

      This document specifies operator's requirements for implementations
      that remove Private Use Autonomous System (AS) numbers from the AS
      path of routes sent to external Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) peers.

  "A REST API For Access To TURN Services", Justin Uberti, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-uberti-behave-turn-rest-00.txt>

      This document describes a proposed standard REST API for obtaining
      access to TURN services via ephemeral (i.e. time-limited)
      credentials.  These credentials are vended by a web service over
      HTTP, and then supplied to and checked by a TURN server using the
      standard TURN protocol.  The usage of ephemeral credentials ensures
      that access to the TURN server can be controlled even if the
      credentials can be discovered by the user, as is the case in WebRTC
      where TURN credentials must be specified in Javascript.

  "Stateful PCE Extensions for Data Plane Switchover and Balancing",
  Yosuke Tanaka, Yuji Kamite, Ina Minei, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-tanaka-pce-stateful-pce-data-ctrl-01.txt>

      Stateful PCE (Path Computation Element) and its corresponding
      protocol extensions provide a mechanism that enables PCE to do
      stateful control of MPLS Traffic Engineering Label Switched Paths (TE
      LSP).  One application that stateful PCE can realize is data traffic
      reoptimization.  Data traffic traversed in a LSP can be switched to
      another PCE-initiated LSP.  Moreover, data traffic can also be
      balanced to multiple PCE-initiated LSPs using stateful PCE.
      
      This document specifies the extensions to Path Computation Element
      Protocol (PCEP) that allow a stateful PCE to do switchover and
      balancing of data traffic with PCE-initiated LSPs.  This document
      also specifies the usage and handling of stateful PCEP (PCE
      Communication Protocol) messages and the expected behavior of PCC as
      the RSVP-TE headend.

  "Separation of Control and User Plane for Proxy Mobile IPv6", Ryuji
  Wakikawa, Rajesh Pazhyannur, Sri Gundavelli, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-wakikawa-netext-pmip-cp-up-separation-00.txt>

      This document describes splitting of Control Plane (CP) and User
      Plane (UP) for a Proxy Mobile IPv6 based network infrastructure.
      Existing specifications allow a MAG to perform splitting of its
      control and user plane using Alternate Care of address mobility
      option for IPv6, or Alternate IPv4 Care of Address option for IPv4.
      However, the current specification does not have semantics for
      allowing the LMA to perform such functional split.  To realize this
      requirement, this specification defines a mobility option that
      enables a local mobility anchor to provide an alternate LMA address
      to be used for the bi-directional tunnel between the MAG and LMA.
      With this extension, a local mobility anchor will be able to use an
      IP address for its user plane which is different than what is used
      for the control plane.

  "Differentiated Services Delay-and-Loss vs. Loss-Rate-Adaptive Service
  Classes", James Polk, Toerless Eckert, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-polk-tsvwg-delay-vs-loss-ds-service-classes-00.txt>

      This document discusses how RTCWeb/RMCAT applications could best
      leverage existing and new DiffServ assignments and why we think it
      is necessary to differentiate the assignments of delay-and-loss-
      based vs. just-loss-based rate-adaptive video applications.

  "The PPP ARCFOUR Encryption Protocol", William Simpson, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-simpson-ppp-arc4-00.txt>

      The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) [RFC1661] provides a standard
      method for transporting multi-protocol datagrams over point-to-point
      links.
      
      The PPP Encryption Control Protocol (ECP) [RFC1968] provides a method
      to negotiate and utilize encryption protocols over PPP encapsulated
      links.
      
      This document described the use of the ARCFOUR algorithm for
      encrypting PPP encapsulated packets.

  "OSPF Stub Neighbors", Khalid Raza, Jon Cavanaugh, Andrew Kulawiak,
  Padma Pillay-Esnault, Faraz Shamim, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-raza-ospf-stub-neighbor-00.txt>

      Open Shortest Path First stub neighbor is an enhancement to the
      protocol to support large scale of neighbors in some topologies with
      improved convergence behavior.  It introduces limited changes
      protocol behavior to implement a scalable solution for hub and spoke
      topologies by restricting the functionality changes to the hub.  The
      concepts are also applicable to a host running in a virtual machine
      environment.

  "Diameter Overload Architecture and Information Model", Hannes
  Tschofenig, 2013-07-15, <draft-tschofenig-dime-overload-arch-00.txt>

      This document describes the architecture for Diameter overload
      control architecture in form of principles and presents an
      information model.

  "The Diameter Load Balancing Application (DLBA)", Hannes Tschofenig,
  2013-07-15, <draft-tschofenig-dime-dlba-00.txt>

      This specification documents a Diameter Load Balancing Application
      (DLBA), which uses the normal Diameter application approach for the
      capability negotiation, propagation and management of Diameter load
      information between Diameter nodes to enable load balancing of
      Diameter requests.

  "Diameter Overload Piggybacking", Hannes Tschofenig, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-tschofenig-dime-overload-piggybacking-00.txt>

      This document describes how to piggyback Diameter overload
      information between Diameter servers and Diameter clients.

  "Privacy Considerations for IPv6 Address Generation Mechanisms", Alissa
  Cooper, Fernando Gont, Dave Thaler, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-cooper-6man-ipv6-address-generation-privacy-00.txt>

      This document discusses privacy and security considerations for
      several IPv6 address generation mechanisms, both standardized and
      non-standardized.  It evaluates how different mechanisms mitigate
      different threats and the trade-offs that implementors, developers,
      and users face in choosing different addresses or address generation
      mechanisms.

  "An Information Model for Network Topologies", Jan Medved, Nitin
  Bahadur, Alex Clemm, Hariharan Ananthakrishnan, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-medved-i2rs-topology-im-01.txt>

      This document defines the information model for network topologies.

  "Delegated CoAP Authentication and Authorization Framework (DCAF)",
  Stefanie Gerdes, Olaf Bergmann, Carsten Bormann, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-gerdes-core-dcaf-authorize-01.txt>

      This specification defines a protocol for delegating client
      authentication and authorization in a constrained environment for
      establishing a Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) channel
      between resource-constrained nodes.  The protocol relies on DTLS to
      transfer authorization information and shared secrets for symmetric
      cryptography between entities in a constrained network.  A resource-
      constrained node can use this protocol to delegate authentication of
      communication peers and management of authorization information to a
      trusted host with less severe limitations regarding processing power
      and memory.

  "Parallel NFS (pNFS) Flexible Files Layout", Benny Halevy, 2013-10-19,
  <draft-bhalevy-nfsv4-flex-files-01.txt>

      Parallel NFS (pNFS) extends Network File System version 4 (NFSv4) to
      allow clients to directly access file data on the storage used by the
      NFSv4 server.  This ability to bypass the server for data access can
      increase both performance and parallelism, but requires additional
      client functionality for data access, some of which is dependent on
      the class of storage used, a.k.a. the Layout Type.  The main pNFS
      operations and data types in NFSv4 Minor version 1 specify a layout-
      type-independent layer; layout-type-specific information is conveyed
      using opaque data structures whose internal structure is further
      defined by the particular layout type specification.  This document
      specifies the NFSv4.1 Flexible Files pNFS Layout as a companion to
      the main NFSv4 Minor version 1 specification for use of pNFS with
      Data Servers over NFSv4 or higher minor versions using flexible, per-
      file striping topology.

  "Keyed IPv6 Tunnel", Maciek Konstantynowicz, Giles Heron, Rainer
  Schatzmayr, Wim Henderickx, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-mkonstan-keyed-ipv6-tunnel-01.txt>

      This document describes a simple L2 Ethernet over IPv6 tunnel
      encapsulation with mandatory 64-bit key for connecting L2 Ethernet
      attachment circuits identified by IPv6 addresses.  The encapsulation
      is based on L2TPv3 over IP.

  "A Framework and Inventory for a Large Scale Measurement System", Aamer
  Akhter, Paul Aitken, 2013-07-15, <draft-akhter-lmap-framework-00.txt>

      This LMAP framework document reviews the LMAP Working Group charter,
      considers the necessary building blocks, and looks at what we already
      have in the IETF and what's missing, so that LMAP Working Group
      attention can be focused on where the gaps are.

  "Use Case from a measurement provider perspective for LMAP", Kenichi
  Nagami, Satoshi Kamei, Kenji Koita, Toshiya Jitsuzumi, Ichiro Mizukoshi,
  2013-07-15, <draft-nagami-lmap-use-case-measurement-provider-00.txt>

      This document describes an example of the use cases of measurement
      provider for LMAP.

  "Fine-Grained Control of Control-Plane Performance: Use Cases and
  Mechanisms", Li Li, Yan Luo, Haibin Song, Yang Yang, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-li-cp-usecases-00.txt>

      It is commonly assumed that a system controller or network management
      system has complete knowledge of the data plane, especially in a
      software-defined network (SDN).  That is, the controller knows
      performance metrics such as the flow table size of each switch, the
      rate of rule updates between a switch control plane and its data
      plane, and the maximum latency to install a rule in the flow table of
      a switch.  However, in reality, this is not the case.  Measurement
      studies show that the flow table size depends on the structure of the
      rules installed.  The flow table size is much smaller if there are
      many wild card rules.  The setup latency also depends on the already
      installed rules.  If there are many wild card rules installed, the
      latency can be much higher.  Currently, data centers pre-setup the
      rules long before the actual associated traffic starts to flow
      through the network.  This puts constraints on the use cases.  In
      this document, we first show that many use cases demand a more
      predictable control plane.  The use cases are applied to networks
      that require control-plane performance information for dynamic
      configuration, as well as SDN networks.  We then discuss potential
      mechanisms to enable fine-grained control of control-plane
      performance.

  "L3VPN Virtual Network Overlay Multicast", Dhananjaya Rao, Vipin Jain,
  2013-07-15, <draft-drao-l3vpn-virtual-network-overlay-multicast-00.txt>

      Virtual network overlays are extremely useful for supporting
      multicast applications in multi-tenant data center networks, by
      distributing the per-tenant multicast state and forwarding actions at
      the network edges with minimal control plane load and simpler
      forwarding in the core.  A virtual overlay network may use existing
      encapsulations such as MPLS-in-GRE or newer IP based encapsulations
      such as VXLAN and NVGRE.
      
      IP multicast sources and receivers are very commonly spread out
      across multiple subnets.  Sources and receivers may also be spread
      within and outside a single network domain such as a data center.
      Hence, a Layer-3 multicast paradigm is the most suitable and
      efficient approach for delivery of IP multicast traffic.
      
      BGP based MVPNs provide a good basis for providing a solution to
      support IP multicast across these overlay networks.  An appropriate
      subset of the MVPN control plane and procedures are sufficient to
      support the requirements, providing for a simpler model of operation.
      This document describes the use of BGP based MVPNs alongwith the new
      IP-based virtual network overlay encapsulations to provide a Layer-3
      virtualization solution for IP multicast traffic, and specifies
      mechanisms to use the new encapsulations while continuing to leverage
      the BGP MVPN control plane techniques and extensions.

  "A proposal for Caller Identity in a DNS-based Entrusted Registry
  (CIDER)", Hadriel Kaplan, 2013-07-15, <draft-kaplan-stir-cider-00.txt>

      This document describes a proposal for providing a database service
      for authentication information for Caller-ID E.164 numbers,
      nationally-specific number codes, and email-style names used in
      communication requests (such as call setup, instant messages). The
      model proposed uses a DNS service as a Registry for cryptographic
      public-keys.  The database service solution is called CIDER.

  "ALTO Cost Value Name", Sabine Randriamasy, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-randriamasy-alto-cost-value-name-00.txt>

      The IETF ALTO protocol provides guidance to content delivery
      applications such as P2P or Content Delivery Networks (CDN), which
      have to select one or several hosts or endpoints from a set of
      candidates that are able to provide a desired data resource.  This
      guidance shall be based on parameters that affect performance and
      efficiency of the data transmission between the hosts, for instance
      the topological distance or the routing cost between them.  To this
      end, ALTO Servers deployed by Network Operators (NO), provide
      requesting ALTO Clients with information, currently such as the NO-
      centric view on the network topology, the candidate application
      endpoints with attributes such as their connectivity type.
      
      The present draft proposes to extend the cost information provided by
      the ALTO protocol by providing, for a same cost metric, several
      possible cost values.  Which value to provide depends on qualitative
      criteria as opposed to quantitative criteria such as time.  The
      purpose is to allow a finer grained decision on which application
      endpoint or sub network to access given that their routing cost
      values may depend on criteria suh as the access technology of the end
      system consuming the resources or the policy applied for the client
      requesting ALTO information.

  "A-PAWS: Alternative Approach for PAWS", Yoshifumi Nishida, 2013-07-28,
  <draft-nishida-tcpm-apaws-00.txt>

      This documents describe a technique called A-PAWS which can provide
      protection against old duplicates segments like PAWS.  While PAWS
      requires TCP to set timestamp options in all segments in a TCP
      connection, A-PAWS supports the same feature without using
      timestamps.  A-PAWS is designed to be used complementary with PAWS.
      TCP needs to use PAWS when it is necessary and activates A-PAWS only
      when it is safe to use.  Without impairing the reliability and the
      robustness of TCP, A-PAWS can provide more option space to other TCP
      extensions.

  "Writing I-Ds using HTML", Phillip Hallam-Baker, 2013-07-29,
  <draft-hallambaker-rfctool-01.txt>

      This memo presents a technique for using as subset HTML as a source
      format for documents in the Internet-Drafts (I-Ds) and Request for
      Comments (RFC) series. The HTML subset provides equivalent
      functionality to the traditional XML2RFC tool but is designed for
      ease of use with readily available editing tools.
      
      Extensions to the HTML markup allow the use of external bibliography
      files to manage citations and references in the manner of BibTeX.
      Planned extensions include building concordances of defined terms and
      normative language.

  "The Accept-Post HTTP Header", John Arwe, Steve Speicher, Erik Wilde,
  2013-09-06, <draft-wilde-accept-post-01.txt>

      This specification defines a new HTTP response header field Accept-
      Post, which indicates server support for specific media types for
      entity bodies in HTTP POST requests.
      
      Note to Readers
      
      This draft should be discussed on the apps-discuss mailing list [1].
      
      Online access to all versions and files is available on github [2].

  "Top-Level Domains that Are Already Dotless", John Levine, Paul Hoffman,
  2013-10-11, <draft-hoffine-already-dotless-05.txt>

      Recent statements from the Internet Architecture Board and ICANN's
      Security and Stability Advisory Committee have discussed the problems
      that the DNS is likely to experience with top-level domains that have
      address records in them (so-called "dotless domains").  In order to
      help researchers determine the extent of the issues with dotless
      domains, this document lists the current dotless TLDs, and gives a
      script for finding them.  This document lists data about dotless
      TLDs, but does not address the policy and technology issues other
      than to point to the statements of others.

  "Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Success Response Code for Indication
  of Alternate Target Answerer", Hadriel Kaplan, 2013-07-29,
  <draft-kaplan-dispatch-sip-205-response-00.txt>

      This document defines a new Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)
      response, 205 Alternate Answerer, that a SIP User Agent Server (UAS)
      can use to indicate to the User Agent Client (UAC) that the UAS is
      answering the request for which it was not the intended target.
      This is useful for cases where the UAC might wish to perform
      different actions based on such knowledge, such as terminate the
      dialog or re-attempt the request in a different way.

  "OAuth 2.0 User Authentication and Consent For Clients", Phil Hunt,
  Anthony Nadalin, 2013-08-27, <draft-hunt-oauth-v2-user-a4c-01.txt>

      This specification defines a new OAuth2 endpoint that enables user
      authentication session and consent information to be shared with
      client applications.

  "Routers auto-configuration using Route Information Option from ICMPv6
  Router Advertisements", Pierre Pfister, Alexandru Petrescu, 2013-07-29,
  <draft-pfister-moving-net-autoconf-00.txt>

      This draft defines a way for multiple routers that are communicating
      on a single link to exchange routing information using Router
      Advertisements.  This allows moving networks to communicate with each
      other through auto-configured routers.  This document specifies a new
      flag for the Router Information option from ICMPv6 Router
      Advertisement messages and specifies how routers must process such
      options.

  "A Framework of Multipath Transport System Based on Application-Level
  Relay (MPTS-AR)", Lei Weimin, Wei Zhang, Shaowei Liu, 2013-07-29,
  <draft-leiwm-tsvwg-mpts-ar-00.txt>

      Multipath transport is an important way to improve the efficiency of
      data delivery. This document defines a multipath transport system
      framework in which application-level relays are deployed to provide
      the conditions to enable multiple paths between source and
      destination. In the proposed framework, endpoints are allowed to use
      multiple paths, including the default IP path and relay paths, to
      transport data in a single session. A relay path may via one or more
      relays which provide application-level relay services for endpoints.
      This framework defines three kinds of logical entities including user
      agent, relay server and relay controller. Relay server provides relay
      service for user agents based on a local path-table. Relay controller
      manages relay servers and relay paths. User agent maintains multiple
      end-to-end paths which include a default path and multiple relay
      paths. The framework also defines a relay service control protocol
      named OpenPath protocol in control plane to manage relay paths, and a
      profile of multipath transport protocol suite in data plane to
      facilitate multipath data transport. The multipath transport system
      framework can support various applications including applications
      requiring timely delivery of real-time data such as streaming media,
      and applications requiring ordered reliable delivery of stream of
      data such as file transfer.

  "Multipath Message Transport Protocol Based on Application-level Relay
  (MPMTP-AR)", Lei Weimin, Shaowei Liu, Wei Zhang, 2013-07-29,
  <draft-leiwm-tsvwg-mpmtp-ar-00.txt>

      Multipath transmission is an important way to improve the quality of
      service for message transport. This document defines a multipath
      message transmission protocol under the framework of Multipath
      Transport System Based on Application-level Relay (MPTS-AR). This
      protocol follows OpenPath and MPTP Profile defined in MPTS-AR. Apart
      from behaviors of user agent defined in MPTS-AR, user agent should be
      also responsible for message reliable transmission,including
      connective session establishment, sequenced deliver,select
      acknowledgement, retransmission, recombination and congestion
      avoidance, etc. This document describes those new or changed
      behaviors, and expands the MPTP format to meet them.Moreover this
      document illustrates the details of multipath transmission mechanism
      reference to the reliable transmission characteristics.

  "Multipath Real-Time Transport Protocol Based on Application-Level Relay
  (MPRTP-AR)", Lei Weimin, Wei Zhang, Shaowei Liu, 2013-07-29,
  <draft-leiwm-avtcore-mprtp-ar-00.txt>

      Currently, most multimedia applications utilize a combination of
      real-time transport protocol (RTP) and user datagram protocol (UDP).
      Application programs at the source end format payload data into RTP
      packets using RTP specifications and dispatch them using unreliable
      UDP along a single path. Multipath transport is an important way to
      improve the efficiency of data delivery. In order to apply the
      framework of multipath transport system based on application-level
      relay (MPTS-AR) to RTP-based multipath applications, this document
      defines a multipath real-time transport protocol based on
      application-level relay (MPRTP-AR), which is a concrete
      application-specific multipath transport protocol (MPTP). Packet
      formats and packet types of MPRTP-AR follow the common rules
      specified in MPTP profile. Based on MPRTP-AR, RTP-based multimedia
      applications can make full use of the advantages brought by the
      multipath transport system based on application-level relay.

  "PCP Usage for Quality of Service (QoS) in Mobile Networks", Reinaldo
  Penno, Tirumaleswar Reddy, Dan Wing, Bill Ver Steeg, Mohamed Boucadair,
  2013-07-29, <draft-penno-pcp-mobile-qos-00.txt>

      There are challenges to request quality of service for an application
      or network flow that is not part of a mobile network's Evolved Packet
      Core (EPC).  This document addresses this issue by defining a
      mechanism to signal the desired characteristics of a flow to the
      Mobile Network from a User Equipment (UE) using Port Control Protocol
      (PCP).  The signaled characteristics allow the Mobile Network to
      enforce appropriate policies such as prioritize that flow accordingly
      and trigger dedicated bearer activation or bearer modification
      procedure.

  "Flexible Dynamic Mesh VPN", Frederic Detienne, Manish Kumar, Mike
  Sullenberger, 2013-07-29, <draft-detienne-dmvpn-00.txt>

      The purpose of a Dynamic Mesh VPN (DMVPN) is to allow IPsec/IKE
      Security Gateways administrators to configure the devices in a
      partial mesh (often a simple star topology called Hub-Spokes) and let
      the Security Gateways establish direct protected tunnels called
      Shortcut Tunnels.  These Shortcut Tunnels are dynamically created
      when traffic flows and are protected by IPsec.

  "Recommendation for Prefix Binding in the Softwire DS-Lite Context",
  Suresh Vinapamula, Mohamed Boucadair, 2013-07-29,
  <draft-vinapamula-softwire-dslite-prefix-binding-00.txt>

      This document describes possible issues induced by the change of the
      B4 IPv6 address and sketches a set of recommendations.

  "Large-Scale Broadband Measurement Enterprise Use-Case", Christopher
  Inacio, 2013-07-29, <draft-inacio-lmap-enterprise-use-case-00.txt>

      The Large-Scale Measurement of Broadband Performance (LMAP) working
      group is defining mechanisms to monitor network performance of large-
      scale networks.  The use case will describe how very large enterprise
      networks are not very different from the networks considered by other
      LMAP use cases and that most measurements are useful to both use
      cases.  In addition this use case will state the need for the ability
      to have finer grained observation related to User Experience
      potentially on a per application basis.

  "Binary Uniform Language Kit 1.0", Pierre Thierry, 2013-08-06,
  <draft-thierry-bulk-02.txt>

      This specification describes a uniform, decentrally extensible and
      efficient format for data serialization.

  "Distributed Mobility Management Approaches with IPv6 Prefix
  Properties", Wen Luo, Yangwei Tu, 2013-07-29,
  <draft-luo-dmm-ipv6-prefix-properties-00.txt>

      This document proposes a potential distributed mobility management
      solution by taking advantage of the feature with IPv6 Prefix Mobility
      Management.  Solutions for extending properties to IPv6 prefixes are
      introduced by defining an extension to the IPv6 Neighbor Discovery
      protocol and its Prefix Information Option (PIO).  In the case of
      Distributed Mobility Management, this idea can also be leveraged to
      describe the mobility management properties associated to the IPv6
      prefix.

  "CMC (Certificate Management over Cryptographic Message Syntax)
  Extensions: Server Key Generation", Jim Schaad, Sean Turner, Paul
  Timmel, 2013-07-30, <draft-turner-cmc-serverkeygeneration-00.txt>

      This document defines a set of extensions to the Certificate
      Management over Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMC) protocol that
      addresses the desire to support server-side generation of keys.  This
      service is provided by the definition of additional control
      statements within the CMC architecture.  Additional CMC errors are
      also defined.

  "IPv6 CE Device DHCPv6 Option Transparency", Mark Smith, 2013-07-30,
  <draft-smith-v6ops-ce-dhcpv6-transparency-00.txt>

      [RFC6204] defines basic requirements for IPv6 Customer Edge Routers,
      to suit residential or small office IPv6 deployments.  It describes a
      WAN interface DHCPv6 client and LAN interface DHCPv6 server
      implementation model.  This model constrains the set of DHCPv6
      options that can be conveyed between the upstream service provider
      and the hosts downstream of the CE device, to those supported by both
      the CE device's DHCPv6 client and server.  To support further current
      and future DHCPv6 options, this memo instead proposes a DHCPv6 option
      "transparent" implementation model for CE devices, primarily using
      DHCPv6 message relaying.

  "OAuth Symmetric Proof of Posession for Code Extension", Nat Sakimura,
  John Bradley, Naveen Agarwal, 2013-10-19,
  <draft-sakimura-oauth-tcse-02.txt>

      The OAuth 2.0 public client utilizing authorization code grant is
      susceptible to the code interception attack.  This specification
      describe a mechanism that acts as a control against this threat.

  "A TCP transport for CoAP", Carsten Bormann, 2013-07-30,
  <draft-bormann-core-coap-tcp-00.txt>

      CoAP is defined to be transported over datagram transports such as
      UDP or DTLS.  For a number of applications, it may be useful to
      channel CoAP messages in a TCP connection.  This draft discusses
      different ways to do that.

  "dnsxml - A standard XML representation of DNS data", Jay Daley, Stephen
  Morris, John Dickinson, 2013-07-30, <draft-daley-dnsxml-00.txt>

      This memo describes a syntax for encoding DNS Resource Records in
      XML, and a schema to define that syntax written in XML Schema.  It
      can be used to represent all DNS RDATA.  This can be used by diverse
      applications as a common format.
      
      DNS Resource Records are represented as XML elements with the name of
      the element taken from the mnemonic used to represent the DNS
      Resource Record in presentation format.  The RDATA is represented as
      XML attributes or content of the element.  The attribute names are
      taken from the RDATA field names specified in the normative RFC.

  "Distributed Mobility Management Approach with Mobile IP", Yangwei Tu,
  Wen Luo, Tricci So, 2013-07-31, <draft-tu-dmm-with-mip-00.txt>

      Based on the analysis of current centralized mobility management
      approaches, three main functions of current centralized mobility
      anchor are introduced, which are Mobility Routing (MR), Home Address
      Allocation (HAA), and Location Management (LM).
      
      Based on the proposal of decoupling those functions, this document
      provides a concept of architecture for Distributed Mobility
      Management (DMM) with some key approaches for DMM.

  "Uniform Resource Names (URN) Formal Namespace IANA Registration", Marc
  Blanchet, 2013-07-31, <draft-blanchet-urn-ianachange-00.txt>

      Per RFC3406, Uniform Resource Names formal namespace identifier (NID)
      registration requires the publication of an RFC from the requestor.
      Experience shows that this requirement is too high.  This document
      updates the IANA registration policy for formal NID to Expert review.

  "IGP Extensions for Segment Routing Capable PCE Discovery", Siva
  Sivabalan, Jan Medved, 2013-07-31,
  <draft-sivabalan-pce-disco-segment-routing-00.txt>

      When a PCE is a Label Switching Router (LSR) participating in
      Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP), or a server participating in IGP,
      its presence and path computation capabilities can be advertised
      using IGP flooding.  Such IGP extensions exist for OSPF and ISIS to
      advertise several such capabilities.  Segment Routing (SR) leverages
      the source routing and tunneling pardigms in which a node steers a
      packet through the network using segments.  A segment can be an MPLS
      label or IPv6 header with a new extension.  In SR networks, a PCE can
      be used to compute paths using SR PCEP extension.  This document
      specifies additional capability to advertise a PCE that supports the
      new SR PCEP extension.

  "The DNS Extended Server Diagnostics (ESD) Option", Evan Hunt,
  2013-07-31, <draft-hunt-dns-server-diagnostics-00.txt>

      The widespread adoption of DNSSEC implies more frequent DNSSEC
      failures.  Unfortunately, DNSSEC's failure mode is largely opaque to
      the client: when validation fails, the only signal that the clients
      of a validating resolver receive is an empty response with a SERVFAIL
      response code.  This note proposes a protocol extension to allow
      SERVFAIL responses to include additional diagnostic information,
      giving the client greater insight into what went wrong and a better
      chance of delivering useful problem reports to DNS operators.

  "Generic Opportunistic Routing Framework", Anders Lindgren, Elwyn
  Davies, Avri Doria, 2013-07-31, <draft-lindgren-dtnrg-gorf-00.txt>

      This document defines GORF, a Generic Opportunistic Routing
      Framework.  GORF specifies all necessary basic functionality that is
      common for all utility-based routing protocols that are variants of
      the epidemic routing protocol for intermittently connected networks
      that operates by pruning the epidemic distribution tree to minimize
      resource usage while still attempting to achieve the best case
      routing capabilities of epidemic routing.  It is intended for use in
      sparse mesh networks where there is no guarantee that a fully
      connected path between source and destination exists at any time,
      rendering traditional routing protocols unable to deliver messages
      between hosts.  These networks are examples of networks where there
      is a disparity between the latency requirements of applications and
      the capabilities of the underlying network (networks often referred
      to as Delay- and Disruption-Tolerant).  The document presents an
      architectural overview followed by the protocol specification.

  "Epidemic Routing Module for Generic Opportunistic Routing Framework",
  Anders Lindgren, Elwyn Davies, Avri Doria, 2013-07-31,
  <draft-lindgren-dtnrg-gorf-epidemic-00.txt>

      This document defines a routing algorithm module for GORF, the
      Generic Opportunistic Routing Framework, as defined in
      draft-lindgren-dtnrg-gorf-00.  This module specifies the Epidemic
      Routing algorithm for that framework.

  "RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Extended Reports (XR) for Bytes Discarded
  Metric", Varun Singh, Joerg Ott, Igor Curcio, 2013-08-01,
  <draft-singh-xrblock-rtcp-xr-bytes-discarded-metric-00.txt>

      The RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) is used in conjunction with the Real-
      time Transport Protocol (RTP) in to provide a variety of short-term
      and long-term reception statistics.  The available reporting may
      include aggregate information across longer periods of time as well
      as individual packet reporting.  This document specifies a report
      computing the bytes discarded from the de-jitter buffer after
      successful reception.

  "IPv6 Stateless Fragmentation Identification Options", Mark Andrews,
  2013-08-05, <draft-andrews-6man-fragopt-01.txt>

      Fragmented IPv6 packets are often dropped because there is no way to
      identify whether a fragment matches a otherwise permitted packet as
      the L4 header information is not available on all the fragments.
      
      The document defines hop-by-hop options that can be used to supply
      the missing information in non initial fragments.

  "6bed4: Peer-to-Peer IPv6 on Any Internetwork", Rick van Rein,
  2013-08-01, <draft-vanrein-6bed4-00.txt>

      The purpose of 6bed4 is to support IPv6-only applications, even on
      IPv4-only networks.  A specific area of concern is that of peer-to-
      peer protocols such as SIP or document exchange during a chat
      session.  Such protocols are designed to run in any environment,
      which means that they cannot rely on IPv6 for themselves, or for
      their peers.  The 6bed4 tunnel mechanism ensures that IPv6 can be
      assumed on all peers.
      
      The 6bed4 mechanism is meant as a fallback mechanism for IPv6
      connectivity on networks that do not support it natively, by running
      a tunnel over UDP and IPv4.  The IPv4 address is used to support
      traceability of the traffic originator, which means that no user
      account or other configuration is needed.
      
      The tunnel mechanism encapsulates IPv6 in UDP/IPv4 and builds on
      existing IPv6 mechanisms; it employs Stateless Address
      Autoconfiguration [RFC4862] to setup an IPv6 address on a 6bed4 Peer,
      and Neighbor Discovery [RFC4861] to find the most direct route to a
      remote 6bed4 Peer.

  "VRRP Graceful Failover", Anurag Kothari, 2013-08-02,
  <draft-kothari-vrrp-graceful-failover-00.txt>

      This memo defines the use of priority zero in VRRP to failover from
      the Master router to one of the Backup routers either by operator
      input (i.e. manual failover) or automatically (e.g. on uplink
      interface going down). The procedure tries to be graceful (i.e.
      minimize outage) wherever possible. It is especially helpful in cases
      where preemption is disabled to avoid unnecessary churn.

  "Remote APDU Call Secure (RACS)", Pascal Urien, 2013-08-04,
  <draft-urien-core-racs-00.txt>

      This document describes the Remote APDU Call Protocol Secure (RACS)
      protocol, dedicated to Grid of Secure Elements (GoSE). These servers
      host Secure Elements (SE), i.e. tamper resistant chips offering
      secure storage and cryptographic resources.
      
      Secure Elements are microcontrollers whose chip area is about 25mm2;
      they deliver trusted computing services in constrained environments.
      
      RACS supports commands for GoSE inventory and data exchange with
      secure elements. It is designed according to the representational
      State Transfer (REST) architecture. RACS resources are identified by
      dedicated URIs. An HTTP interface is also supported.

  "Simulcast and layered video coding support in WebRTC", Gustavo Garcia,
  2013-08-05, <draft-garcia-simulcast-and-layered-video-webrtc-00.txt>

      This document describes the use cases and requirements for simulcast
      and layered video coding support in WebRTC.  These techniques
      simplify the implementation of video stream adaptation to different
      participants in centralized conferencing solutions.  This document
      also includes a proposal to expose these capabilities in the existing
      PeerConnection API by defining new media constraint properties.

  "Localized Routing for Multi-Home Mobile Node in PMIPv6", Yong Cui, Xin
  Xu, Wendong Wang, Guoyan Liu, Chunhui Zhu, Na Zhou, 2013-08-06,
  <draft-cui-netext-multihome-lr-00.txt>

      In basic PMIPv6[RFC5213], Local Mobility Anchor (LMA) should forward
      all traffic for the registered MN.  Localized Routing (LR) for PMIPv6
      proposed in [RFC6705] allows MN to exchange data directly by using
      localized forwarding or tunnel between the MAGs.  But in some multi-
      access scenarios, it is apparently suboptimal.  The present document
      proposes two localized routing mechanisms that are compatible with
      RFC 6705 for multi-access MNs which have some interfaces attached to
      the same MAGs.

  "BULK Time namespace", Pierre Thierry, 2013-08-06,
  <draft-thierry-bulk-time-00.txt>

      This specification describes a BULK serialization of time
      informations.

  "BULK Simple XML namespace", Pierre Thierry, 2013-08-06,
  <draft-thierry-bulk-xml-00.txt>

      This specification describes a BULK serialization of XML data.

  "BULK RDF namespace", Pierre Thierry, 2013-08-06,
  <draft-thierry-bulk-rdf-00.txt>

      This specification describes a BULK serialization of RDF ontologies
      and graphs.

  "BULK ARchive Format", Pierre Thierry, 2013-08-06,
  <draft-thierry-bulk-barf-00.txt>

      This specification describes a BULK format to pack together
      independent pieces of data and metadata about them.

  "Illustrative CDNI Metadata for HTTPS Delivery", Mal Hubert, Rob Murray,
  Ben Niven-Jenkins, 2013-08-07, <draft-hubert-cdni-https-metadata-00.txt>

      The CDNI Metadata specification describes generic CDNI metadata
      objects and properties as well as mechanisms to extend the generic/
      base objects and properties to support additional standardised and/or
      proprietary capabilities.  This document is intended to "test" the
      extensibility of the CDNI Metadata protocol by defining CDNI Metadata
      for delivery of content over HTTPS that extends the existing generic
      CDNI Metadata.

  "A Unified Framework for Software-Defined Information-Centric Network",
  Will Liu, Jing Ren, Jianping Wang, 2013-08-09,
  <draft-icn-implementation-sdn-00.txt>

      This document aims at discussing some research issues about the
      implementation of information-centric network (ICN) architectures.
      Towards this end, we first review the implementation methods employed
      by various ICNs and discuss the potential problems of these
      implementations.  Then we propose a unified framework for ICN
      implementation based on Software-Defined Networking (SDN) technique
      which can facilitate the implementation of any ICN architecture and
      interoperability among different ICN architectures.

  "A Unified Framework for Software-Defined Information-Centric Network",
  Will Liu, Jing Ren, Jianping Wang, 2013-08-09,
  <draft-liu-icn-implementation-sdn-00.txt>

      This document aims at discussing some research issues about the
      implementation of information-centric network (ICN) architectures.
      Towards this end, we first review the implementation methods employed
      by various ICNs and discuss the potential problems of these
      implementations.  Then we propose a unified framework for ICN
      implementation based on Software-Defined Networking (SDN) technique
      which can facilitate the implementation of any ICN architecture and
      interoperability among different ICN architectures.

  "Adding acronyms to simplify DANE conversations", Olafur Gudmundsson,
  2013-09-06, <draft-dane-registry-acronym-01.txt>

      Experience has show that people get confused using the three numeric
      fields the TLSA record.  This document specifies descriptive acronyms
      for the three numeric fields in the TLSA records.

  "Improving the Robustness of TCP to Non-Congestion Events", Alexander
  Zimmermann, Sumitha Bhandarkar, Anil Reddy, Mark Allman, 2013-08-09,
  <draft-zimmermann-tcpm-rfc4653bis-00.txt,.pdf>

      This document specifies Non-Congestion Robustness (NCR) for TCP.  In
      the absence of explicit congestion notification from the network, TCP
      uses loss as an indication of congestion.  One of the ways TCP
      detects loss is using the arrival of three duplicate acknowledgments.
      However, this heuristic is not always correct, notably in the case
      when network paths reorder segments (for whatever reason), resulting
      in degraded performance.  TCP-NCR is designed to mitigate this
      degraded performance by increasing the number of duplicate
      acknowledgments required to trigger loss recovery, based on the
      current state of the connection, in an effort to better disambiguate
      true segment loss from segment reordering.  This document specifies
      the changes to TCP, as well as the costs and benefits of these
      modifications.

  "Terminology for Security Assessment", David Waltermire, Adam Montville,
  David Harrington, 2013-08-10, <draft-dbh-sacm-terminology-00.txt>

      This memo documents terminology used in the documents produced by the
      SACM WG (Security Automation and Continuous Monitoring).

  "IPv6 Address Prefixes Reserved for Documentation", Antonio Moreiras,
  Edwin Cordeiro, Rodrigo Santos, Arturo Servin,  aacosta@rocketmail.com,
  2013-10-21, <draft-moreiras-v6ops-rfc3849bis-01.txt>

      [RFC3849] specified an IPv6 prefix to be used in documentation, in
      order to reduce the likelihood of conflict and confusion when
      relating examples of deployed systems.  This prefix was reserved to
      be used in examples in RFCs, books, documentation, and the like.  It
      became widely accepted and used.
      
      Although the IPv6 documentation prefix proved to be very useful, a /
      32 prefix is not enough to be used to document some kinds of IPv6
      deployments, such as large ISP deployments, transition techniques,
      and other useful examples that require longer prefixes.  This
      document defines the allocation of a new global unicast (GUA) block
      and a new unique local (ULA) block, to expand the range of
      documentation blocks.  It also updates [RFC3849].

  "Describing Captures in CLUE and relation to multipoint conferencing",
  Christian Groves, Weiwei Yang, Roni Even, 2013-08-11,
  <draft-groves-clue-multi-content-00.txt>

      In a multipoint Telepresence conference, there are more than two
      sites participating.  Additional complexity is required to enable
      media streams from each participant to show up on the displays of the
      other participants.  Common policies to address the multipoint case
      include "site-switch" and "segment-switch".  The document will
      discuss these policies as well as the "composed" policy and how they
      work in the multipoint case.
      
      The current CLUE framework document contains the "composed" and
      "switched" attributes to describe situations where a capture is mix
      or composition of streams or where the capture represents a dynamic
      subset of streams.  "Composed" and "switched" are capture level
      attributes.  In addition to these attributes the framework defines an
      attribute "Scene-switch-policy" on a capture scene entry (CSE) level
      which indicates how the captures are switched.
      
      This draft discusses composition/switching in CLUE and makes a number
      of proposals to better define and support these capabilities.

  "Handing Over Child SAs Following Re-Authentication in IKEv2", Yoav Nir,
  2013-10-14, <draft-nir-ipsecme-cafr-03.txt>

      This document describes an extension to the IKEv2 protocol whereby
      Child SAs are moved to the new IKE SA following re-authentication.
      This allows for a smoother transition with no loss of connectivity.

  "DNS SERVEZONES message", Jay Daley, 2013-08-12,
  <draft-daley-servezones-00.txt>

      This memo describes an addition to the DNS protocol that support the
      remote provisioning of zones on authoritative servers.  This addition
      is complementary to the existing mechanisms for provisioning zone
      data using the DNS protocol.

  "Use of the WebSocket Protocol as a Transport for the Remote Framebuffer
  Protocol", Nicholas Wilson, 2013-10-07, <draft-realvnc-websocket-02.txt>

      The Remote Framebuffer protocol (RFB) enables clients to connect to
      and control remote graphical resources.  This document describes a
      transport for RFB using the WebSocket protocol, and defines a
      corresponding WebSocket subprotocol, enabling an RFB server to offer
      resources to clients with WebSocket connectivity, such as web-
      browsers.

  "Requirements and Use Cases for Source/Destination Routing", Fred Baker,
  2013-08-13, <draft-baker-rtgwg-src-dst-routing-use-cases-00.txt>

      This note attempts to capture important use cases for source/
      destination routing.

  "Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman Proof-of-Possession Method", Michael
  Peck, 2013-10-02, <draft-peck-ecdhpop-01.txt>

      This document specifies a proof-of-possession mechanism for
      requesting Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman X.509 public key
      certificates using the PKCS #10 and CRMF syntaxes.

  "Directory-Based Information Services: Mapping Objects", Mark Bannister,
  2013-09-17, <draft-bannister-dbis-mapping-02.txt>

      This is one of several documents that describe the components within
      Directory-Based Information Services (DBIS).  DBIS provides a
      framework for the representation of data relating to TCP/IP and the
      UNIX system within [X.500] entries that have previously been stored
      in the Network Information Service [NIS]; so that they may be
      resolved with the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol [RFC4510].
      
      The intention of DBIS is to extend, and thereby replace both NIS and
      the experimental protocol for using LDAP as a Network Information
      Service (RFC2307), which have both achieved widespread adoption.
      
      DBIS consists of an LDAP schema, naming conventions and protocols to
      describe its use by DUAs requiring network service information.
      Client/server communication and server-side operations are entirely
      contained within the domain of LDAP.
      
      Key aspects of DBIS and improvements over RFC2307 are:
      
      - Schema is backwards compatible with NIS, including case sensitivity
      of key names.
      
      - Standardisation of mapping information to increase portability of
      DUA implementations and to reduce duplication of client
      configuration data.
      
      - Features added to increase flexibility in large complex
      environments:
      
      o Maps may be joined from data located in different areas of the
      Directory Information Tree (DIT).
      
      o Groups of DUAs may have variances in their data depending upon
      their host netgroup membership.
      
      - Modular design to allow separate parts of the system to be
      replaced, improved or augmented separately in the future.
      
      - Support added for automounter maps [draft-bannister-dbis-
      automounter-00].
      
      This document describes mapping objects used by DBIS to locate and
      transform service information stored within the DIT.

  "Directory-Based Information Services: Netgroups and Netservices", Mark
  Bannister, 2013-09-09, <draft-bannister-dbis-netgroup-01.txt>

      This document extends Directory-Based Information Services (DBIS)
      described in [draft-bannister-dbis-mapping-00] to support netgroup
      and netservice databases.
      
      A netgroup database schema SHALL be backwards compatible with the
      Network Information Service [NIS] but stored within [X.500] entries
      so that they may be resolved with the Lightweight Directory Access
      Protocol [RFC4510].  A netgroup database represents groups of hosts,
      users and domains.
      
      A netservice database schema is a new extension to netgroups that
      allows administrators to describe services or configuration options
      for a user or system based upon their netgroup membership.
      
      This document describes configuration maps [draft-bannister-dbis-
      mapping-00] for netgroup and netservice databases, and database
      entries referenced by those maps.

  "Directory-Based Information Services: Users and Groups", Mark
  Bannister, 2013-09-09, <draft-bannister-dbis-passwd-01.txt>

      This document extends Directory-Based Information Services (DBIS)
      described in [draft-bannister-dbis-mapping-00] to support passwd and
      group databases.
      
      The passwd and group database schemas SHALL be backwards compatible
      with the Network Information Service [NIS] but stored within [X.500]
      entries so that they may be resolved with the Lightweight Directory
      Access Protocol [RFC4510].
      
      A passwd database represents user login accounts on UNIX and UNIX-
      like systems and a group database represents user groups.
      
      This document describes configuration maps [draft-bannister-dbis-
      mapping-00] for passwd and group databases, and database entries
      referenced by those maps.
      
      Overlays may optionally be used to help reduce the complexity of
      merging multiple DBIS domains in large environments by permitting
      groups of hosts to have variations in their UIDs, GIDs, home
      directories and login shells.

  "Directory-Based Information Services: Password Policies", Mark
  Bannister, 2013-09-20, <draft-bannister-dbis-policy-02.txt>

      This document extends Directory-Based Information Services (DBIS)
      described in [draft-bannister-dbis-mapping-00] to support the shadow
      databases.
      
      The shadow database schema SHALL be backwards compatible with the
      Network Information Service [NIS] but stored within [X.500] entries
      so that it may be resolved with the Lightweight Directory Access
      Protocol [RFC4510].
      
      A shadow database extends user login accounts with credential policy
      data.
      
      This document represents shadow database entries as an extended set
      of attributes that may be applied to both passwd and group database
      entries for the management of consistent password policies.
      
      This document describes configuration maps [draft-bannister-dbis-
      mapping-00] for shadow databases, and database entries referenced by
      those maps.

  "Directory-Based Information Services: Hosts, Networks and Services",
  Mark Bannister, 2013-09-10, <draft-bannister-dbis-hosts-03.txt>

      This document extends Directory-Based Information Services (DBIS)
      described in [draft-bannister-dbis-mapping-00] to support hosts,
      networks, netmasks, protocols, rpc and services databases.
      
      The database schemas SHALL be backwards compatible with the Network
      Information Service [NIS] but stored within [X.500] entries so that
      they may be resolved with the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
      [RFC4510].
      
      A hosts database maps hostnames to IP addresses, networks map network
      names to network numbers, netmasks map network numbers to netmasks,
      protocols map network protocol names to protocol numbers, rpc maps
      Remote Procedure Call [RFC1057] program names to RPC program numbers
      and services map network service names to port numbers and protocols.
      
      This document describes configuration maps [draft-bannister-dbis-
      mapping-00] for hosts, networks, protocols, rpc and services, and
      database entries referenced by those maps.

  "Directory-Based Information Services: Devices", Mark Bannister,
  2013-08-15, <draft-bannister-dbis-devices-01.txt>

      This document extends Directory-Based Information Services (DBIS)
      described in [draft-bannister-dbis-mapping-00] to support ethers and
      bootparams databases.
      
      The database schemas SHALL be backwards compatible with the Network
      Information Service [NIS] but stored within [X.500] entries so that
      they may be resolved with the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
      [RFC4510].
      
      An ethers database maps 48-bit Ethernet addresses to IP addresses or
      host names, and bootparams maps hosts to boot-time kernel parameters.
      
      This document describes LDAP object classes and attributes required
      to extend hosts entries [draft-bannister-dbis-hosts-00] to support
      parameters for ethers and bootparams maps.

  "Directory-Based Information Services: Automounter", Mark Bannister,
  2013-09-09, <draft-bannister-dbis-automounter-01.txt>

      This document extends Directory-Based Information Services (DBIS)
      described in [draft-bannister-dbis-mapping-00] to support the
      automount database.
      
      The automount database schema SHALL be backwards compatible with the
      Network Information Service [NIS] but stored within [X.500] entries
      so that they may be resolved with the Lightweight Directory Access
      Protocol [RFC4510].
      
      An automount database contains information about file system mount-
      points that are to be mapped by the automounter.
      
      This document describes configuration maps [draft-bannister-dbis-
      mapping-00] for the automount database, and database entries
      referenced by those maps.

  "Directory-Based Information Services: Custom Maps", Mark Bannister,
  2013-08-15, <draft-bannister-dbis-custom-00.txt>

      This document extends Directory-Based Information Services (DBIS)
      described in [draft-bannister-dbis-mapping-00] to support custom
      databases.
      
      The custom database schema SHALL be backwards compatible with the
      Network Information Service [NIS] but stored within [X.500] entries
      so that they may be resolved with the Lightweight Directory Access
      Protocol [RFC4510].
      
      A custom database contains arbitrary key/value pairs.
      
      This document describes configuration maps [draft-bannister-dbis-
      mapping-00] for custom databases, and database entries referenced by
      those maps.

  "Marking HTTP Requests as Unimportant", Martin Thomson, 2013-08-15,
  <draft-thomson-http-nice-00.txt>

      An HTTP "Nice" header field is defined that marks a request as low
      priority.  Intermediaries can choose to discard the request or serve
      it from cache rather than forwarding it to an origin server.  This
      enables constrained origin servers, such as those that rely on
      battery power, to avoid expending limited resources on serving
      requests.

  "Metadata Query Protocol", Ian Young, 2013-08-16,
  <draft-young-md-query-00.txt>

      This document defines a simple protocol for retrieving metadata about
      entities.  The goal of the protocol is to profile various aspects of
      HTTP to allow requesters to rely on certain, rigorously defined,
      behaviour.

  "UDP Transport Layer (UDPTL) over Datagram Transport Layer Security
  (DTLS)", Christer Holmberg, Ivo Sedlacek, Gonzalo Salgueiro, 2013-09-23,
  <draft-holmberg-mmusic-udptl-dtls-02.txt>

      This document specifies how the UDP Transport Layer (UDPTL) protocol
      can be transported over the Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)
      protocol, how the usage of UDPTL over DTLS is indicated in the
      Session Description Protocol (SDP), and how UDPTL over DTLS is
      negotiated in a session established using the Session Initiation
      Protocol (SIP).

  "PCP Deployment Models", Mohamed Boucadair, 2013-08-19,
  <draft-boucadair-pcp-deployment-cases-00.txt>

      This document lists a set of PCP deployment models.

  "Entropy labels for source routed stacked tunnels", Sriganesh Kini,
  Kireeti Kompella, Siva Sivabalan, 2013-08-30,
  <draft-kini-mpls-entropy-label-src-stacked-tunnels-01.txt>

      Source routed tunnel stacking is a technique that can be leveraged to
      provide a method to steer a packet through a controlled set of
      segments.  This can be applied to the Multi Protocol Label Switching
      (MPLS) data plane.  Entropy label (EL) is a technique used in MPLS to
      improve load balancing.  This document examines how ELs are to be
      applied to source routed stacked tunnels.

  "Prohibiting RC4 Cipher Suites", Andrey Popov, 2013-10-05,
  <draft-popov-tls-prohibiting-rc4-01.txt>

      This document requires that Transport Layer Security (TLS) clients
      and servers never negotiate the use of RC4 cipher suites when they
      establish connections.

  "Using ZRTP to Secure WebRTC", Alan Johnston, Philip Zimmermann, Jon
  Callas, Travis Cross, John Yoakum, 2013-08-22,
  <draft-johnston-rtcweb-zrtp-00.txt>

      WebRTC, Web Real-Time Communications, is a set of protocols and APIs
      used to enable web developers to add real-time communications into
      their web pages and applications with a few lines of JavaScript.
      WebRTC media flows are encrypted and authenticated by SRTP, the
      Secure Real-time Transport Protocol while the key agreement is
      provided by DTLS-SRTP, Datagram Transport Layer Security for Secure
      Real-time Transport Protocol.  However, without some third party
      identity service or certificate authority, WebRTC media flows have no
      protection against a man-in-the-middle (MitM) attack.  ZRTP, Media
      Path Key Agreement for Unicast Secure RTP, RFC 6189, does provide
      protection against MitM attackers using key continuity augmented with
      a Short Authentication String (SAS).  This specification describes
      how ZRTP can be used over the WebRTC data channel to provide MitM
      protection for WebRTC media flows keyed using DTLS-SRTP.  This
      provides users protection against MitM attackers without requiring
      browsers to support ZRTP or users to download a plugin or extension
      to implement ZRTP.

  "Use of the Hash-based Merkle Tree Signature (MTS) Algorithm in the
  Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)", Russ Housley, 2013-08-26,
  <draft-housley-cms-mts-hash-sig-00.txt>

      This document specifies the conventions for using the Merkle Tree
      Signatures (MTS) digital signature algorithm with the Cryptographic
      Message Syntax (CMS).  The MTS algorithm is one form of hash-based
      digital signature.

  "OAuth 2.0 Core Dynamic Client Registration", Justin Richer, John
  Bradley, Michael Jones, Maciej Machulak, 2013-08-26,
  <draft-richer-oauth-dyn-reg-core-00.txt>

      This specification defines an endpoint and protocol for dynamic
      registration of OAuth 2.0 clients at an authorization server.

  "HIEP: HTB Internet E-wallet Protocol", Tian Guorong, Shen Jun, Curtis
  Yang, 2013-08-26, <draft-tianguorong-hiep-00.txt,.pdf>

      This document describes an online-paying method that realizes the paying
      addressing on the basis of HTTP protocol. It is for the purpose to setup
      a 
      normative and safe E-paying system standard, and specify the
      definition of 
      E-paying.

  "CalDAV: Timezones by Reference", Cyrus Daboo, 2013-08-26,
  <draft-daboo-caldav-timezone-ref-00.txt>

      This document defines an extension to the CalDAV calendar access
      protocol to allow clients and servers to exchange iCalendar data
      without the need to send full timezone data.

  "OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Management Protocol", Justin
  Richer, John Bradley, Michael Jones, Maciej Machulak, 2013-08-27,
  <draft-richer-oauth-dyn-reg-management-00.txt>

      This specification defines methods for a dynamically registered OAuth
      2.0 client to manage its registration through an OAuth 2.0 protected
      web API as well as extended client metadata attributes.

  "Representing IPv6 Zone Identifiers in Address Literals and Uniform
  Resource Identifiers", Michael Sweet, Brian Carpenter, Stuart Cheshire,
  Robert Hinden, 2013-08-27, <draft-sweet-uri-zoneid-00.txt>

      This document describes how the zone identifier of an IPv6 scoped
      address, defined as <zone_id> in the IPv6 Scoped Address Architecture
      (RFC 4007), can be represented in a literal IPv6 address and in a
      Uniform Resource Identifier that includes such a literal address.  It
      updates the URI Generic Syntax specification (RFC 3986) accordingly.
      
      [ Editor's note: This draft adds the IPvFuture format used by CUPS
      since 2005, addresses some misconceptions of how zoneid's are not
      useful to HTTP servers, and is intended to replace RFC 6874. ]

  "LISP Generic Protocol Extension", Darrel Lewis, Puneet Agarwal,
  Lawrence Kreeger, Paul Quinn, Michael Smith, Navindra Yadav, 2013-10-01,
  <draft-lewis-lisp-gpe-01.txt>

      This draft describes a mechanism for adding generalized multi-
      protocol support to the Locator/ID Separation Protocol (LISP)
      [RFC6830].  Protocol identification is carried in the LISP header and
      is used to describe the encapsulated payload.

  "Generic Protocol Extension for VXLAN", Paul Quinn, Puneet Agarwal, Rex
  Fernando, Darrel Lewis, Lawrence Kreeger, Michael Smith, Navindra Yadav,
  2013-10-01, <draft-quinn-vxlan-gpe-01.txt>

      This draft describes a mechanism for adding multi-protocol support to
      Virtual eXtensible Local Area Network (VXLAN).  Protocol
      identification is carried in the VXLAN header and is used to describe
      the encapsulated payload.

  "A Registry Investigation for IPPM Packet Delay Variation Metrics", Al
  Morton, 2013-08-27, <draft-morton-ippm-registry-pdv-00.txt>

      This memo investigates a scheme to organize registry entries,
      primarily those defined in RFCs prepared in the IP Performance
      Metrics (IPPM) Working Group of the IETF.  Three aspects make IPPM
      metric registration difficult: (1) Use of the Type-P notion to allow
      users to specify their own packet types. (2) Use of Flexible input
      variables, called Parameters in IPPM definitions, some which
      determine the quantity measured and others which should not be
      specified until execution of the measurement. (3) Allowing
      flexibility in choice of statistics to summarize the results on a
      stream of measurement packets.  Specifically, this memo investigates
      registry entries that would follow from RFC 3393, the specification
      IP Packet Delay Variation that allows for many different forms of
      unique metrics, as a difficult and important test of the registry
      structure.

  "CoAP option for no server-response", Abhijan Bhattacharyya, Soma
  Bandyopadhyay, Arpan Pal, 2013-10-09,
  <draft-tcs-coap-no-response-option-04.txt>

      There can be typical M2M scenarios where responses from the data
      sink to the data source against request/ notification from the
      source might be considered redundant. This kind of open-loop
      exchange (with no reverse path from the sink to the source) may be
      desired while updating resources in constrained systems looking for
      maximized throughput with minimized resource consumption. CoAP
      already provides a non-confirmable (NON) mode of exchange where The
      receiving end-point does not respond with ACK. However, the
      receiving end-point responds the sender with a status code
      indicating "the result of the attempt to understand and satisfy the
      request".
      
      This draft introduces a header option: 'No-Response' to suppress
      responses from the receiver and discusses exemplary use cases which
      motivated this proposition based on real experience. This option
      also provides granularity by allowing suppression of a typical class
      or a combination of classes of responses. This option may be
      effective for both unicast and multicast scenarios.

  "Additional Link Relations and the urn:social Namespace", James Snell,
  2013-10-21, <draft-snell-more-link-relations-02.txt>

      This specification defines a number of additional Link Relation Types
      that can used for a variety of purposes.

  "vCard Format Extensions : Signed vCards", Daniel Boese, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-boese-vcarddav-signedvcard-03.txt>

      The base vCard 4.0 specification defines a large number of properties.
      This specification adds two new parameters and six new properties to
      vCard 4.0, which allow the use of cryptography and public-key
      infrastructure (PKI) for identity assertion.
      
      Note
      
      Discussion and suggestions for improvement are requested, and should
      be sent to vcarddav@ietf.org.

  "An IANA Registry for Protocol Uses of Data with the DNS TXT RRTYPE",
  John Klensin, Andrew Sullivan, Patrik Fltstrm, 2013-08-30,
  <draft-klensin-iana-txt-rr-registry-00.txt>

      Some protocols use the RDATA field of the DNS TXT RRTYPE for holding
      data to be parsed, rather than for unstructured free text.  This
      document specifies the creation of an IANA registry for protocol-
      specific structured data to minimize the risk of conflicting or
      inconsistent uses of that RRTYPE and data field.

  "Guideline for dynamic payload type number usage policy", Wenson Wu,
  Roni Even, Rachel Huang, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-wu-avtcore-dynamic-pt-usage-02.txt>

      The RTP Profile for Audio and Video Conferences with Minimal Control
      (RTP/AVP) is the basis for many other profiles, such as the Secure
      Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP/SAVP), the Extended RTP Profile for
      Real-time Transport Control Protocol (RTCP)-Based Feedback (RTP/
      AVPF), and the Extended Secure RTP Profile for RTCP-Based Feedback
      (RTP/SAVPF).  This document provides guidelines for payload type
      number usage policy when dynamic payload type allocation is used.
      Also this document updates closed IANA registry "RTP Payload types
      (PT) for standard audio and video encodings".

  "Centralized Routing Control in BGP Networks Using Link-State
  Abstraction", Petr Lapukhov, Edet Nkposong, 2013-09-01,
  <draft-lapukhov-bgp-sdn-00.txt>

      Some operators deploy networks consisting of multiple BGP Autonomous-
      Systems (ASNs) under the same administrative control.  There are also
      implementations which use only one routing protocol, namely BGP, as
      in [I-D.lapukhov-bgp-routing-large-dc], for example.  In such
      designs, inter-AS traffic engineering is commonly implemented using
      BGP policies, by configuring multiple routers at the ASN boundaries.
      This distributed policy model is difficult to manage and scale due to
      its dependency on complex routing policies and the need to develop
      and maintain a model for per-prefix path preference signaling.  One
      example of such models could be standard BGP community-based (see
      [RFC1997]) signaling, which requires careful documentation and
      consistent configuration.  Furthermore, automating such policy
      configuration changes for the purpose of centralized management
      requires additional efforts and is dependent on a particular vendor's
      configuration management (CLI extensions, NetConf [RFC6241] etc).
      
      This document proposes a method for inter-AS traffic engineering for
      use with the kind of deployment scenarios outlined above.  No
      protocol changes or additional features are required to implement
      this method.  The key to the proposed methodology is a new software
      entity called "BGP Controller" - a special purpose application that
      peers with all eBGP speakers in the managed network.  This controller
      constructs live state of the underlying BGP ASN graph and presents
      multi-topology view of this graph via a simple API to third-party
      applications interested in performing network traffic engineering.
      An example application could be an operational tool used to drain
      traffic from network devices.  In response to changes in the logical
      network topology proposed by these applications, the controller
      computes new routing tables, and pushes them down to the network
      devices via the established BGP sessions.

  "On Popularity versus Quality", Dave Cridland, 2013-09-03,
  <draft-cridland-rfc-labels-00.txt>

      Any RFC is typically seen as having the approval of the IETF
      community; Standards Track documents even more so.  This document
      explores the distinction between approval based on specification
      quality, and approval based on high deployment.

  "Secure Telephone Identity Revisited (STIR) Frequently Repeated
  Information and Explanation Document (FRIED)", Hadriel Kaplan,
  2013-09-03, <draft-kaplan-stir-fried-00.txt>

      This document is a type of FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions) for new
      STIR Working Group participants.  Since its inception three months
      ago there have been over 1,500 emails on the mailing list, before
      the WG was even formed.  Some of the emails repeat topics, because
      newcomers cannot be expected to read all previous emails in the
      archive.  This document is an attempt to capture some of the
      previously asked and answered questions.
      
      This document is written by one individual, is not intended to be
      published as an RFC, and is only meant as a temporary FAQ while the
      Working Group begins.  The document attempts to provide both high-
      level information for non-experts, as well as low-level information
      for protocol experts.

  "TRILL: Multi-Topology", Donald Eastlake, Mingui Zhang, Ayan Banerjee,
  Vishwas Manral, 2013-09-03, <draft-eastlake-trill-multi-topology-00.txt>

      This document specifies extensions to the IETF TRILL (Transparent
      Interconnection of Lots of Links) protocol to support multi-topology
      routing of unicast and multi-destination traffic based on IS-IS
      (Intermediate System to Intermediate System) multi-topology specified
      in RFC 5120. It updates RFC 6325 and updates RFC 6327bis.

  "The Perfect Passive Adversary: A Threat Model for the Evaluation of
  Protocols under Pervasive Surveillance", Brian Trammell, 2013-09-04,
  <draft-trammell-perpass-ppa-00.txt>

      This document elaborates a threat model for the Perfect Passive
      Adversary (PPA): an adversary with an interest in eavesdropping that
      can passively observe network traffic at every layer at every point
      in the network between the endpoints.  It is intended to demonstrate
      to protocol designers and implementors the observability and
      inferability of information and metainformation transported over
      their respective protocols, to assist in the evaluation of the
      performance of these protocols and the effectiveness of their
      protection mechanisms under pervasive passive surveillance.

  "Responsibility for Authoritative DNSSEC Mistakes", Jason Livingood,
  2013-09-04, <draft-livingood-auth-dnssec-mistakes-01.txt>

      DNS Security Extensions (DNSSEC) is now entering widespread
      deployment.  However, domain signing tools and processes are not yet
      as mature and reliable as is the case for non-DNSSEC-related domain
      administration tools and processes.  Authoritative DNS operators
      should focus on improving these processes and establishing a high
      level of quality in their work.

  "In Case of DNSSEC Validation Failures, Do Not Change Resolvers", Jason
  Livingood, 2013-09-04, <draft-livingood-dont-switch-resolvers-01.txt>

      DNS Security Extensions (DNSSEC) is beginning widespread deployment.
      However, domain signing tools and processes are not yet as mature and
      reliable as is the case for non-DNSSEC-related domain administration
      tools and processes.  As a result, some DNSSEC validation failures
      may occur.  When these failures do occur, end users SHOULD NOT change
      to a non-validating DNS resolver.

  "Secure Telephone Identity Threat Model", Jon Peterson, 2013-09-04,
  <draft-peterson-stir-threats-00.txt>

      As the Internet and the telephone network have become increasingly
      interconnected and interdependent, attackers can impersonate or
      obscure calling party numbers when orchestrating bulk commercial
      calling schemes, hacking voicemail boxes or even circumventing multi-
      factor authentication systems trusted by banks.  This document
      analyzes threats in the resulting system, enumerating actors,
      reviewing the powers available to and used by attackers, and
      describing scenarios in which those powers are exercised.

  "RESTCONF Protocol", Andy Bierman, Martin Bjorklund, Kent Watsen, Rex
  Fernando, 2013-10-19, <draft-bierman-netconf-restconf-02.txt>

      This document describes a RESTful protocol that provides a
      programmatic interface over HTTP for accessing data defined in YANG,
      using the datastores defined in NETCONF.

  "Problem Statement of Network Functions Virtualization Model", Weiping
  Xu, Yuanlong Jiang, Cathy Zhou, 2013-09-04,
  <draft-xjz-nfv-model-problem-statement-00.txt>

      This document discusses the problem space of the Network Functions
      Virtualisation (NFV) models in the NFV environment. Possible use
      cases and the language for the models will also be identified.

  "The TCP Service Number Option (SNO)", Joseph Touch, 2013-09-04,
  <draft-touch-tcpm-sno-00.txt>

      This document specifies a TCP option for service numbers. The
      current SYN destination port is used both to indicate the desired
      service and as a connection demultiplexing field. This option
      separates those two functions, retaining the current destination
      port solely for demultiplexing and indicating the service separately
      in a service number option (SNO). By decoupling these two functions,
      SNO allows a larger number of concurrent connections for a single
      service, as might be useful between fixed addresses of proxies.

  "Signaling Entropy Label Capability Using Interior Gateway Protocols",
  KuiKe Building, Sriganesh Kini, Siva Sivabalan, Clarence Filsfils,
  2013-09-05, <draft-xu-mpls-el-capability-signaling-igp-00.txt>

      Multi Protocol Label Switching (MPLS) has defined a mechanism to load
      balance traffic flows using Entropy Labels (EL).  An LSR inserts the
      EL Indicator and the EL label only if the LSR that pops them has the
      capability of processing them.  This draft defines a mechanism to
      signal that capability using link state Interior Gateway Protocols
      (IGP).  This mechanism is useful when the label advertisement is also
      done via that IGP.

  "The Problems of Virtual Network Function Configuration", Haibin Song,
  Zhen Cao, 2013-10-17,
  <draft-song-opsawg-virtual-network-function-config-01.txt>

      This document describes the problem space of remote service
      installation and configuration in the provider's network through a
      centralized management system.  This is a typical scenario for
      virtual function installation and dynamic configuration in network
      function virtualization (NFV) context.  It is also a typical scenario
      in cloud computing environment where end users do not have to install
      applications in their end hosts, but can install their own featured
      powerful software application in the cloud.  This specification also
      identifies the scope that needs standardization based on the
      problems.

  "Use cases and requirements for authentication and authorisation in
  CoAP", Bert Greevenbosch, 2013-09-06,
  <draft-greevenbosch-core-authreq-00.txt>

      This draft describes use cases and requirements for authenticated and
      authorised CoAP.  The draft especially focuses on threats and their
      prevention.
      
      Note
      
      Discussion and suggestions for improvement are requested, and should
      be sent to core@ietf.org.

  "Profiles for Initial Server Settings", Roberto Peon, Gabriel
  Montenegro, 2013-09-06,
  <draft-montenegro-httpbis-http2-server-profiles-00.txt>

      In HTTP/2.0, if running over TLS, the client is the first to
      transmit HTTP/2.0 frames on the new session. With its first
      transmission to the server, the client can already overrun some
      of the server settings and preferences, leading to failure
      conditions and unnecessary complexity. This document proposes a
      solution to this problem based on a very small set of server
      profiles for initial settings sent within the TLS handshake.

  "Recommendations for Secure Use of TLS and DTLS", Yaron Sheffer, Ralph
  Holz, 2013-09-20, <draft-sheffer-tls-bcp-01.txt>

      Over the last few years there have been several serious attacks on
      TLS, including attacks on its most commonly used ciphers and modes of
      operation.  This document offers recommendations on securely using
      the TLS and DTLS protocols, given existing standards and
      implementations.

  "Expectations of Implementers of IETF Protocols", Russ Housley,
  2013-09-10, <draft-housley-implementer-obligations-01.txt>

      By choosing to implement an IETF protocol, one is expected to follow
      the specification, associated best current practices, and IANA
      registry practices.

  "Use of Transport Layer Security (TLS) in the Extensible Messaging and
  Presence Protocol (XMPP)", Peter Saint-Andre, 2013-10-19,
  <draft-saintandre-xmpp-tls-02.txt>

      This document provides recommendations for the use of Transport Layer
      Security (TLS) in the Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol
      (XMPP).  This document updates RFC 6120.

  "Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman Key Agreement using Curve25519 for
  Transport Layer Security (TLS)", Simon Josefsson, 2013-09-24,
  <draft-josefsson-tls-curve25519-01.txt>

      This document specifies the use of Curve25519 for key exchange in the
      Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol.

  "NFS Protocol Extension: Retrospect and Prospect", David Noveck,
  2013-09-09, <draft-dnoveck-nfs-extension-00.txt>

      This document surveys the processes by which the NFS protocol has
      been extended in the past and considers how the mechanisms by which
      the protocol is extended might best be modified in the future.

  "IPv6 Path MTU Interactions With Link Adaptation", Fred Templin,
  2013-09-09, <draft-templin-6man-linkadapt-00.txt>

      IPv6 intentionally deprecates fragmentation by routers in the
      network.  Instead, links with restricting Maximum Transmission Units
      (MTUs) must either drop each too-large packet and return an ICMPv6
      Packet Too Big (PTB) message or perform link-specific fragmentation
      and reassembly (also known as "link adaptation") at a layer below
      IPv6.  This latter category of links is often performance-challenged
      to accommodate steady-state link adaptation.  This document therefore
      proposes an update to the base IPv6 specification to better
      accommodate links that require link-specific adaptation to meet the
      IPv6 minimum MTU of 1280 bytes.

  "Suspenders: A Fail-safe Mechanism for the RPKI", Stephen Kent, David
  Mandelberg, 2013-09-09, <draft-kent-sidr-suspenders-00.txt>

      The Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI) is an authorization
      infrastructure that allows the holder of Internet Number Resources
      (INRs) to make verifiable statements about those resources.  The
      certification authorities (CAs) in the RPKI issue certificates to
      match their allocation of INRs.  These entities are trusted to issue
      certificates that accurately reflect the allocation state of
      resources as per their databases.  However, there is some risk that a
      CA will make inappropriate changes to the RPKI, either accidentally
      or deliberately (e.g., as a result of some form of "government
      mandate").  The mechanisms described below, and referred to as
      "Suspenders" are intended to address this risk.
      
      Suspenders enables an INR holder to publish information about changes
      to objects it signs and publishes in the RPKI repository system.
      This information is made available via a file that is external to the
      RPKI repository, so that Relying Parties (RPs) can detect erroneous
      or malicious changes related to these objects.  RPs can then decide,
      individually, whether to accept changes that are not corroborated by
      independent assertions by INR holders, or to revert to previously
      verified RPKI data.

  "vCard Format Extensions : phonetic transcription", Teiichiro Fukuda,
  Taichi Matsuura, Yusuke Yamamoto, 2013-09-24,
  <draft-fukuda-vcarddav-phonetic-transcription-02.txt>

      This specification adds a new property concerning the phonetic
      transcription to vCard4.0.

  "ChaCha20 and Poly1305 based Cipher Suites for TLS", Adam Langley,
  2013-10-08, <draft-agl-tls-chacha20poly1305-02.txt>

      This memo describes the use of the ChaCha20 cipher with a Poly1305
      authenticator as a cipher suite for Transport Layer Security (TLS).

  "TCP chain query requests in DNS", Paul Wouters, 2013-10-15,
  <draft-wouters-edns-tcp-chain-query-01.txt>

      This document defines an EDNS0 extension that can be used by a DNSSEC
      enabled Recursive Nameserver configured as a forwarder to send a
      single query over TCP requesting to receive a complete validation
      path along with the regular query answer.

  "network service chaining metadata", fangwei hu, Qiandeng Liang, Jianjie
  You, 2013-09-11, <draft-hu-nsc-metadata-00.txt>

      This draft provides a programmable NSC metadata that could be carried
      by different transport types to create network service paths.  The
      NSC metadata architecture and metadata format are defined in this
      document.  In addition, the NSC metadata format negotiation mechanism
      between network controller node and network forwarding nodes is
      specified.

  "PRISM-Proof Security Considerations", Phillip Hallam-Baker, 2013-09-11,
  <draft-hallambaker-prismproof-req-00.txt>

      PRISM is reputed to be a classified US government that involves
      covert interception of a substantial proportion of global Internet
      traffic. This document describe the security concerns such a program
      raises for Internet users and security controls that may be employed
      to mitigate the risk of pervasive intercept capabilities regardless
      of source.

  "Multimedia Conference Recording Use Cases and Requirements", Paul
  Kyzivat, Michael Yan, Simon Romano, 2013-09-12,
  <draft-kyzivat-siprec-conference-use-cases-00.txt,.pdf>

      The current work of SIPREC will soon finish.  As conferences are the
      key requirement for some environments, it is worth to explore several
      extensions and additional functionalities to support multimedia
      conference recording.  SIPREC is not sufficient to record all the
      conference sessions via certain interactive media channels, like
      multi-user chat or screen sharing.
      
      This draft tries to show the use cases for multimedia conference
      recording and the requirements for how to work well under SIPREC
      mechanism.

  "IKEv2 based lightweight secure data communication", Amjad Inamdar,
  Rajeshwar Jenwar, 2013-09-15,
  <draft-amjads-ipsecme-ikev2-data-channel-00.txt>

      This document describes an IKEv2 based lightweight secure data
      communication mechanism over UDP port 4500, that supports reliable
      and unreliable data transfers, integrity protected encryption and
      integrity-only protection, in-band and out-of-band keys,
      fragmentation and payload identification.  With this mechanism, IKEv2
      provides a complete secure connectivity solution that addresses key
      management and secure data communication needs of applications.

  "HTTP Link Descriptions", Erik Wilde, 2013-09-15,
  <draft-wilde-link-desc-00.txt>

      Interactions with many resources on the Web are driven by links, and
      these links often define certain expectations about the interactions
      (such as HTTP methods being used, media types being sent in the
      request, or URI parameters being used in a certain way).  While these
      expectations are essential to define the possible framework for
      interactions, it may be useful to further narrow them down by
      providing link descriptions, which can help clients to gain more
      runtime knowledge about the resource they are about to interact with.
      This memo defines Link Descriptions, a model and associated media
      type that can be used to describe links by supporting descriptive
      markup for representing interaction information with links.  Link
      Descriptions can be used by media types (by inclusion or by
      reference) that seek to make Link Descriptions runtime-capable,
      without having to create their own representation.

  "RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Extended Report (XR) for Post-Repair
  Non-Run Length Encoding (RLE) Loss Count Metrics", Rachel Huang, Varun
  Singh, 2013-09-15, <draft-huang-xrblock-post-repair-loss-count-00.txt>

      This document defines an RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Extended Report
      (XR) Block that allows reporting of post-repair loss count metrics
      for a range of RTP applications.

  "Use cases for CoRE security", Ludwig Seitz, Stefanie Gerdes, Goran
  Selander, 2013-09-16, <draft-seitz-core-sec-usecases-00.txt>

      This document presents use cases for security measures in scenarios
      involving constrained RESTful devices.  Special focus is placed on
      access control and authentication.  Where specific details are
      relevant, it is assumed that the devices use CoAP as communication
      protocol, however most conclusions apply generally.
      
      A number of security requirements are derived from the use cases,
      which are intended as a guideline for developing a comprehensive
      authentication and authorization approach for this class of
      scenarios.

  "Covering Prefixes Outbound Route Filter for BGP-4", Huajin Jeng, Ron
  Bonica, Yakov Rekhter, 2013-09-16,
  <draft-bonica-l3vpn-orf-covering-prefixes-00.txt>

      This document defines a new ORF-type, called the "Covering Prefixes
      ORF (CP-ORF)".  The CP-ORF is applicable in the context of a Virtual
      Hub-and-Spoke VPN.  It may also be applicable in other BGP/MPLS VPN
      environments.

  "HTTP/2.0 Protocol Test", Michelle Lai, Changshu Jian, Rob Trace,
  2013-09-16, <draft-trace-httpbis-http2-test-00.txt>

      This document suggests guidance and principles for testing
      HTTP/2.0 implementations. Goals are to improve the HTTP/2.0
      specification by mitigating the potential ambiguity of the
      protocol specification and improving interoperability of its
      implementations.

  "Subscription to Differntial Resource lists in SIP Presence Event
  Notification model", N Ilankumaran,  Gopalakrishnan, 2013-09-23,
  <draft-ilan-dispatch-subscription-diff-list-01.txt>

      SIP SIMPLE work group has defined several improvements to SIP
      Presence event notification model, such as subscription to a list of
      resources in the body of single SUBSCRIBE request, and Resource List
      Server (RLS) to create subscription to resource list identified by a
      URI. This document presents an extension to incrementally update
      resource list contained in the body of subscription requests for SIP
      presence. The document defines semantics for creating incremental
      changes to resource list that are carried in requests for
      subscription refreshes. This enables reduction in the number of
      messages exchanged for subscriptions in large network of inter-
      connected SIP based presence servers.

  "A Proposal for Backwards Compatibility of the INSIPID Session-ID",
  James Polk, Paul Jones, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-polk-insipid-bkwds-compatibility-proposal-03.txt>

      This is a proposal for backwards compatibility for the INSIPID
      Session-ID SIP header.
      
      This draft is never intended to reach RFC status, and is written
      merely to make a concrete proposal that everyone can view - and if
      agreed upon, it will be woven into the INSIPID solution draft.

  "YANG Conformance Specification", Andy Bierman, 2013-09-18,
  <draft-bierman-netmod-yang-conformance-01.txt>

      This document describes conformance specification and advertisement
      mechanisms for NETCONF servers implementing YANG data model modules.

  "Problem Statement: Deployment of TLS Strong Authentication", Karl
  Malbrain, 2013-09-23,
  <draft-malbrain-tls-strong-authentication-01.txt,.pdf>

      The security provided by authenticated TLS connection between
      clients and servers should protect both parties from "Man-in-
      the-Middle" (MITM) attacks.  Clients should be authenticating
      that their server connection is to the server they requested.
      
      Servers that act as client agents need to authenticate that
      the connection is directly to their client secure against
      eavesdropping or account/password hacking.
      
      An extension to the Domain Name System (DNS), The DNS-Based
      Authentication of Named Entities (DANE) (RFC 6698), allows TLS
      servers to publish their public certificates for use by TLS
      clients to authenticate the server connection.

  "PCP Server Discovery in Mobile Networks with SIPTO", Gang Chen,
  Tirumaleswar Reddy, Prashanth Patil, Mohamed Boucadair, 2013-09-18,
  <draft-chen-pcp-sipto-serv-discovery-00.txt>

      This document proposes an extension to DHCPv4 Relay information so
      that a PCP client learns the relevant PCP server deployed in the
      context of traffic offload.

  "Label Switched Path (LSP) Ping/Trace Reply Mode Simplification", Nobo
  Akiya, George Swallow, Carlos Pignataro, Loa Andersson, Mach Chen,
  2013-09-19, <draft-akiya-mpls-lsp-ping-reply-mode-simple-00.txt,.pdf>

      This document adds two reply modes to be used by Multiprotocol Label
      Switching (MPLS) Label Switched Path (LSP) Ping and Traceroute: one
      reply mode to indicate reverse LSP and one reply mode to allow
      responder to choose reply mode from pre-defined set.  This document
      also adds an optional TLV which can carry ordered list of reply
      modes.
      
      This document updates [RFC4379].

  "Prismatic Reflections", Brian Carpenter, 2013-09-19,
  <draft-carpenter-prismatic-reflections-00.txt>

      Recent public disclosure of allegedly pervasive surveillance of
      Internet traffic has led to calls for action by the IETF.  This draft
      exists solely to collect together a number of possible actions that
      were mentioned in a vigorous discussion on the IETF mailing list.

  "Using Test Delegations from the Root Prior to Full Allocation and
  Delegation", Geoff Huston, Olaf Kolkman, Andrew Sullivan, Warren Kumari,
  George Michaelson, 2013-10-19,
  <draft-kolkman-root-test-delegation-01.txt>

      The delegation of certain strings as generic Top Level Domains
      (gTLDs) will cause stability and security issues if such strings have
      been used in private environments prior to their delegation.  Test
      delegations can be used to enable empirical research on the extent of
      the possible collision prior to actual allocation and delegation of
      any label in the root zone.  This document describes one such
      approach to an empirical testing framework.

  "Privacy Requirements for IETF Protocols", Alissa Cooper, Stephen
  Farrell, Sean Turner, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-cooper-ietf-privacy-requirements-01.txt>

      It is the consensus of the IETF that our protocols be designed to
      avoid privacy violations to the extent possible.  This document
      establishes a number of protocol design choices as Best Current
      Practices for the purpose of avoiding such violations.

  "PRISM-Proof Email Deployment Requirements", Phillip Hallam-Baker,
  2013-09-20, <draft-hallambaker-prismproof-dep-00.txt>

      This document describes previous efforts and their deployment legacy
      and the requirements for a successful email security infrastructure.
      A gap analysis is performed and the tasks divided into problems that
      are generally considered solved albeit possibly requiring improved
      execution and problems that may be regarded as research.
      
      This division of the problem space into 'execution' and 'research'
      portions allows different groups of developers to address each
      independently and avoid unnecessary duplication of effort. A testbed
      for development and early adopter deployment that achieves this
      separation is described.

  "Internet-wide Geo-networking Problem Statement", Georgios Karagiannis,
  Geert Heijenk, Andreas Festag, Alexandru Petrescu, Alison Chaiken,
  2013-09-21, <draft-karagiannis-problem-statement-geonetworking-00.txt>

      This document describes the need of specifying Internet-wide
      location-aware forwarding protocol solutions that provide
      packet routing using geographical positions for packet transport.

  "Boundary Analysis for Internationalization and Localization", Nico
  Williams, 2013-09-21, <draft-williams-i18n-boundary-analysis-00.txt>

      Internationalization of protocols and programs often requires
      determining where to use one or another character repertoire,
      codeset, encoding, where to perform localization, and so on.  This
      document aims to serve as a guide to Internet protocol designers in
      determining what they may or should recommend or require of protocol
      implementors.  Of particular interest in this document are filesystem
      protocols.

  "Application Bridging for Federated Access Beyond Web (ABFAB) Use
  Cases",  juanwei2012@gmail.com, Jianyong Chen, Jun Zhang, 2013-10-10,
  <draft-wei-abfab-usecases-01.txt>

      Identity Management System plays an important role in Cloud
      Computing. A good Identity Management System should meet the diverse
      security requirements from both service providers and users, improve
      usability for users and protect the resources from unauthorized
      access. The goal of the document is to document two kinds of level
      of assurance, one for authentication and the other for attribute, to
      provide users with a friendly experience through the use of
      technologies based on the ABFAB architecture and specifications.

  "DHCP Option for IPTV Source address", Ramakanth Josyula, 2013-10-02,
  <draft-josyula-dhc-multicast-02.txt>

      Internet Protocol Television(IPTV) is a system facilitating
      transmission of television channels as multicast streams use
      dedicated multicast group addresses in IP networks.  Internet Group
      Multicast Protocol(IGMP) is widely used for the communication between
      hosts and routers to deliver the multicast streams in the IPv4
      networks.  Similarly,Multicast Listener Discovery Protocol (MLD)is
      used for the communication between the hosts and routers to deliver
      the multicast streams in the IPv6 networks.  It is also possible for
      the networks to distinguish these multicast streams not only by their
      destination multicast group but also by the source IP address of the
      streams.  IGMP version-3 and MLD version-2 are protocols that allow
      the hosts to inform the neighboring routers about their desire to
      receive the multicast streams from specific source IP addresses.
      This needs a mechanism to supply the available multicast source
      address information to the hosts and the hosts also should be
      strictly implemented with the source specific multicasting aware
      protocols such as above mentioned IGMPv3 or MLDv2.  This document
      describes a new DHCP option which can addresses these issues.  In
      addition to this, the document also describes about the advantages in
      the networks by implementing this option.

  "Dynamic Path Selection (DPS) Based on Application", Arun, 2013-09-22,
  <draft-aumuganainar-rtg-dps-00.txt>

      The document describes a network design architecture for routing
      packets via different paths available in the network based on
      application port number. Primarily, this is targeted for Enterprise
      customers who have built up redundancy at their WAN edge but are
      suffering from a congested primary link whilst the secondary is
      idle.
      
      The objective of this architecture is as follows
      
      1) Offload bulky application on to the secondary link
      2) Achieve the above with out introducing asymmetric routing in the
      network

  "Virtual Network Function Configuration Architecture", Hong Zhou, Haibin
  Song, Fu Qiao, 2013-09-22, <draft-zhou-opsawg-vnf-config-arch-00.txt>

      This document describes the architecture of remote service
      installation and configuration in the provider's network through a
      centralized management system.  This is a typical scenario for
      virtual network function installation and dynamic configuration in
      network function virtualization (NFV) context.  It is also a typical
      scenario in cloud computing environment where end users do not have
      to install applications on their end hosts, but can install their own
      featured powerful software application in the cloud.  This
      specification describes an architecture of virtual network function
      installation and configuration.  It is also applicable to other use
      cases with similar requirements.

  "A framework for large-scale measurement platforms (LMAP)", Philip
  Eardley, Al Morton, Marcelo Bagnulo, Trevor Burbridge, Paul Aitken,
  Aamer Akhter, 2013-09-23, <draft-folks-lmap-framework-00.txt>

      Measuring broadband service on a large scale requires standardisation
      of the logical architecture and a description of the key protocols
      that coordinate interactions between the components.  The document
      presents an overall framework for large-scale measurements.  It also
      defines terminology for LMAP (large-scale measurement platforms).
      The document is a contribution towards the LMAP working group's
      milestone.

  "Using Secure DNS to Assert S/MIME Usage", Scott Rose, 2013-09-23,
  <draft-srose-smimelock-00.txt>

      This draft defines and discusses the use of a new DNS resource record
      (RR) type to address S/MIME downgrade attacks.  The SMIMELOCK RR
      allows a domain to convey general message security policy.
      Primarily, this RR allows the domain owner to advertise a policy that
      all legitimate messages from this domain will be signed by a
      verifiable certificate.

  "PCE support for Domain Diversity", Dhruv Dhody, Qin Wu, Udayasree
  Palle, Xian Zhang, 2013-09-24, <draft-dwpz-pce-domain-diverse-00.txt>

      The Path Computation Element (PCE) may be used for computing path for
      services that traverse multi-area and multi-AS Multiprotocol Label
      Switching (MPLS) and Generalized MPLS (GMPLS) Traffic Engineered (TE)
      networks.
      
      Path computation should facilitate the selection of paths with domain
      diversity.  This document examines the existing mechanisms to do so
      and further propose some extensions to Path Computation Element
      Protocol (PCEP).

  "IGP Extensions for Automatic Computation of MPLS Traffic Engineering
  Path Using Traffic Engineering Layers and Areas", Zhenbin Li, Li Zhang,
  Yuanjiao Liu, 2013-09-24, <draft-li-ccamp-auto-mbb-te-path-00.txt>

      As the network scale expands, especially in the mobile backhaul
      network, automatic computation of MPLS Traffic Engineering (TE) path
      becomes very important.  But owing to requirements on the MPLS TE
      path, explicit path or affinity property has to be introduced for the
      path computation.  This causes the complexity of MPLS TE path design.
      The document proposes an architecture and corresponding OSPF and ISIS
      extensions to improve automation on computation of MPLS TE path.
      MPLS TE networks are divided into different traffic engineering
      layers and areas according to the characteristics of the network
      topology.  MPLS TE path can compute automatically based on traffic
      engineering layers and areas to satisfy major requirements to bear
      mobile network services.

  "A Proposal for increasing the Network Address Space of IPv4", Tim Cox,
  2013-09-24, <draft-netaddress74bit-tcox-00.txt>

      Proposal to allow 64-bit or 32-bit Network Addressing
      in a single and otherwise unchanged Internet Protocol
      Stack

  "A Proposal for increasing the Network Address Space of IPv4", Tim Cox,
  2013-09-24, <draft-netaddress64bit-tcox-00.txt>

      Proposal to allow 64-bit or 32-bit Network Addressing
      in a single and otherwise unchanged Internet Protocol
      Stack

  "Updating Parent Zones", Mark Andrews, 2013-10-08,
  <draft-andrews-dnsop-update-parent-zones-01.txt>

      DNS UPDATE was developed to allow DNS zones to be updated.
      
      There is a perception that UPDATE can not be used in conjuction with
      the Registry, Registar, Registrant (RRR) model to update a zone.
      
      This document explains how UPDATE can be used in the RRR model.

  "Data Models for Network Functions Virtualization", Weiping Xu, Yuanlong
  Jiang, Cathy Zhou, 2013-09-25, <draft-xjz-nfv-model-datamodel-00.txt>

      This document provides some YANG data models for Network Functions
      Virtualization (NFV).

  "RPKI Local Trust Anchor Use Cases", Randy Bush, 2013-09-25,
  <draft-ymbk-lta-use-cases-00.txt>

      There are a number of critical circumstances where a localized
      routing domain needs to augment or modify the Global RPKI.  This
      document attempts to outline a few of them.

  "TLS Signaling Cipher Suite Value (SCSV) for Preventing Protocol
  Downgrade Attacks", Bodo Moeller, 2013-09-25,
  <draft-bmoeller-tls-downgrade-scsv-00.txt>

      This document defines a Signaling Cipher Suite Value (SCSV) that can
      be used to prevent protocol downgrades for Transport Layer Security
      (TLS).

  "Local Auth MIB", Satyanarayana Danda, Prakash Vijayaragavan,
  2013-10-10, <draft-sdanda-localauth-mib-01.txt>

      This draft defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
      for use with network management protocols in the Internet community.
      In particular, it describes managed objects for managing Locally
      authenticated users.

  "MPLS Payload Protocol Identifier", KuiKe Building, Mach Chen,
  2013-09-26, <draft-xu-mpls-payload-protocol-identifier-00.txt>

      The MPLS label stack has no explicit protocol identifier field to
      indicate the protocol type of the MPLS payload. This document
      proposes a mechanism for containing a protocol identifier field
      within the MPLS packet, which may be useful in some emerging use
      cases (e.g., network service chain and MPLS payload inspection).

  "Security Requirements of NVO3", Zu Qiang, Alan Kavanagh, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-zu-nov3-security-requirements-01.txt,.pdf>

      This draft discusses the security requirements and several issues
      which need to be considered in securing a NVO3 network architecture
      based virtualized data center network for multiple tenants. In
      addition, the draft also discusses issues that could be addressed or
      mitigated.

  "H.265 Payload Header Extension and Temporal Scalability Support",
  Stephan Wenger, 2013-09-26,
  <draft-wenger-payload-h265-payload-header-extension-00.txt>

      Proposed are the allocation of a NAL unit type from the
      "unspecified" set of NAL units of H.265 [HEVC] for the purpose of
      payload header extensions, a generic syntax for the use of that
      pseudo NAL unit, and one application for it: the signaling of
      temporal scalability support information.  Two alternative designs
      are included.  The content of this draft is intended for
      incorporation into the H.265 RTP payload [h265-payload].

  "MN IP reachablility for the DMM", Chunshan Xiong, Liu Jianning,
  2013-09-27, <draft-xiong-dmm-ip-reachability-00.txt>

      In distributed mobility management (DMM) environment, the mobile node
      (MN) has more than one IP addresses and can use different IP address
      to communicate with different hosts.
      
      When a new correspondent node (CN) initials an IP session with MN,
      the CN needs to find and select one of the MN's IP addresses to best
      (e.g. with low delay) for the IP session..
      
      This draft provides two solutions to find and select of MN's IP
      addresses, one is DDNS[rfc 2136]-based solution, the other is Server
      Register-based solution.

  "Common Metadata Header Format for IP/MPLS Networks", Jim Guichard,
  Simon Spraggs, Carlos Pignataro, Stewart Bryant, 2013-09-27,
  <draft-guichard-sfc-metadata-header-00.txt>

      This document defines the common format for the metadata header used
      to carry metadata in IPv4, IPv6, and MPLS packets.

  "Carrying Metadata in MPLS Networks", Jim Guichard, Carlos Pignataro,
  Simon Spraggs, Stewart Bryant, 2013-09-27,
  <draft-guichard-sfc-mpls-metadata-00.txt>

      This document defines the mechanism for identifying the presence of
      metadata carried in addition to the payload in MPLS packets.

  "OAuth 2.0 Software Statement", Phil Hunt, Anthony Nadalin, 2013-09-27,
  <draft-hunt-oauth-software-statement-00.txt>

      This specification defines a JWT authorization assertion known as a
      'software statment' for use in an OAuth protected environment.  A
      software statement is a JWT assertion used by an OAuth client to
      provide both informational and OAuth protocol related assertions that
      aid service providers to recognize OAuth client software and its
      expected behaviour within an OAuth Framework protected resource
      environment.

  "OAuth Client Association", Phil Hunt, Anthony Nadalin, 2013-09-27,
  <draft-hunt-oauth-client-association-00.txt>

      This specification defines methods that OAuth clients may use to
      associate (register) with service providers for the purposes of
      accessing OAuth protected resources.  The document describes
      different classifications of OAuth clients and the process to
      directly access or associate for access with a particular OAuth
      Framework protected service provider.

  "Interface to the Routing System (I2RS) Traceability: Framework and
  Information Model", Joe Clarke, Gonzalo Salgueiro, Carlos Pignataro,
  2013-09-28, <draft-clarke-i2rs-traceability-00.txt>

      This document describes a framework for traceability in the Interface
      to the Routing System (I2RS) and information model for that
      framework.  It specifies the motivation, requirements, use cases, and
      defines an information model for recording interactions between
      elements implementing the I2RS protocol.  This framework provides a
      consistent tracing interface for components implementing the I2RS
      architecture to record what was done, by which component, and when.
      It aims to improve the management of I2RS implementations, and can be
      used for troubleshooting, auditing, forensics, and accounting
      purposes.

  "Extensions to Resource ReSerVation Protocol-Traffic Engineering (RSVP-
  TE) to Support Route Exclusion Using Path Key Subobject", Xian Zhang,
  Fatai Zhang, Oscar de Dios, Igor Bryskin, 2013-09-28,
  <draft-zhang-ccamp-route-exclusion-pathkey-00.txt>

      This document extends the Resource ReSerVation Protocol-Traffic
      Engineering (RSVP-TE) eXclude Route Object (XRO) and Explicit Route
      Object (ERO) to support specifying route exclusion requirement using
      Path Key Subobject (PKS).

  "Application Enabled SDN (A-SDN)", Reinaldo Penno, Tirumaleswar Reddy,
  Mohamed Boucadair, Dan Wing, Suresh Vinapamula, 2013-09-29,
  <draft-penno-pcp-asdn-00.txt>

      To allow traversal of firewalls or provide additional network
      services such as QoS or supplemental bandwidth, it is necessary to
      deploy application-aware network elements.  Such network elements are
      costly to create, deploy, and are unable to adequately cope with
      changes to the application itself, stifling innovation.
      
      This document describes a different approach, where the application
      explicitly signals its needs to the network.

  "Simple Web Application Programming Interface -- SWAPI 2.1", J. Dobias,
  2013-09-30, <draft-jdobias-appsawg-swapi-00.txt>

      This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
      provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.  Internet-Drafts are working
      documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF).  Note that
      other groups may also distribute working documents as
      Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-Drafts is at
      http://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current.

  "A(nother) Registry for Performance Metrics", Marcelo Bagnulo, Al
  Morton, Philip Eardley, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-mornulo-ippm-registry-columns-01.txt>

      This memo investigates a scheme to organize registry entries,
      especially those defined in RFCs prepared in the IP Performance
      Metrics (IPPM) Working Group of the IETF, and applicable to all IETF
      metrics.  Three aspects make IPPM metric registration difficult: (1)
      Use of the Type-P notion to allow users to specify their own packet
      types. (2) Use of flexible input variables, called Parameters in IPPM
      definitions, some which determine the quantity measured and others
      which should not be specified until execution of the measurement. (3)
      Allowing flexibility in choice of statistics to summarize the results
      on a stream of measurement packets.  Specifically, this memo proposes
      a way to organize registry entries into columns that are well-
      defined, permiting consistent development of entries over time.
      Also, this fosters development of registry entries based on existing
      reference RFCs for performance metrics, and requires expert review
      for every entry before IANA action.
      
      This version contains an example registry entry for a passive
      endpoint metric based on RFC7003, an example active metric entry
      based on RFC3393 and RFC5481, and an example pure passive metric
      based on RFC5472.  Also, this version *continues* to allow blank
      entries in columns which have no applicability to a specific metric,
      or class of metrics.  This is preferred to more general registry
      organization because each column serves as a check-list item and
      helps to avoid omissions during registration and expert review.

  "A Registry for Performance Metrics", Marcelo Bagnulo, Al Morton, Philip
  Eardley, 2013-09-30, <draft-mornulo-ippm-registry-00.txt>

      This memo investigates a scheme to organize registry entries,
      especially those defined in RFCs prepared in the IP Performance
      Metrics (IPPM) Working Group of the IETF, and applicable to all IETF
      metrics.  Three aspects make IPPM metric registration difficult: (1)
      Use of the Type-P notion to allow users to specify their own packet
      types. (2) Use of flexible input variables, called Parameters in IPPM
      definitions, some which determine the quantity measured and others
      which should not be specified until execution of the measurement. (3)
      Allowing flexibility in choice of statistics to summarize the results
      on a stream of measurement packets.  Specifically, this memo proposes
      a way to organize registry entries into columns that are well-
      defined, permiting consistent development of entries over time.
      Also, this fosters development of registry entries based on existing
      reference RFCs for performance metrics, and requires expert review
      for every entry before IANA action.

  "Dynamic Path Selection (DPS) Based on Application", Arun, 2013-09-30,
  <draft-aumuganainar-rtgwg-dps-00.txt>

      The document describes a network design architecture for routing
      packets via different paths available in the network based on
      application port number. Primarily, this is targeted for Enterprise
      customers who have built up redundancy at their WAN edge but are
      suffering from a congested primary link whilst the secondary is
      idle.
      
      The objective of this architecture is as follows
      
      1) Offload bulky application on to the secondary link
      2) Achieve the above with out introducing asymmetric routing in the
      network

  "Opportunistic Encryption for HTTP URIs", Mark Nottingham, 2013-10-15,
  <draft-nottingham-http2-encryption-01.txt>

      This document proposes a way to optimistically encrypt HTTP/2.0 using
      TLS for HTTP URIs.

  "Supporting Source/Explicitly Routed Tunnels via Stacked LSPs", Hannes
  Gredler, Yakov Rekhter, Luay Jalil, Sriganesh Kini, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-gredler-spring-mpls-02.txt>

      This document describes how source/explicitly routed tunnels could be
      realized using stacked Label Switched Paths (LSPs).
      
      This document also describes how use of IS-IS/OSPF as a label
      distribution protocol fits into the MPLS architecture.

  "Requirements for Service Function Chaining", Mohamed Boucadair,
  Christian Jacquenet, Yuanlong Jiang, Ron Parker, Carlos Pignataro,
  2013-10-02, <draft-boucadair-sfc-requirements-00.txt>

      This document identifies the requirements for the Service Function
      Chaining (SFC).

  "F-Ticks - A Federation Log Format", Leif Johansson, Stefan Winter,
  2013-10-02, <draft-johansson-fticks-00.txt>

      This document describes a log format for distributed identity
      federations that can be used as a tool for meetering and statistics
      gathering.

  "Service Function Chaining: Framework & Architecture", Mohamed
  Boucadair, Christian Jacquenet, Ron Parker, Diego Lopez, Jim Guichard,
  Carlos Pignataro, 2013-10-03, <draft-boucadair-sfc-framework-00.txt>

      IP networks rely more and more on the combination of advanced
      functions (besides the basic routing and forwarding functions) for
      the delivery of added value services.  This document defines a
      framework to enforce Service Function Chaining (SFC) with minimum
      requirements on the physical topology of the network.
      
      The proposed framework allows for differentiated forwarding: packets
      are initially classified and marked at the entry point of an SFC-
      enabled domain, and are then forwarded on a per SF Map Index basis.

  "Service Function Chaining: Design Considerations, Analysis &
  Recommendations", Mohamed Boucadair, Ron Parker, 2013-10-03,
  <draft-boucadair-sfc-design-analysis-00.txt>

      The objectives of this document are to analyze the various design
      options, and provide a set of recommendations to be followed during
      the design phase of the Service Function Chaining solution(s).  Note:
      
      o  The analysis does not claim to be exhaustive.  The list includes a
      preliminary set of potential solutions; other proposals can be
      added to the analysis if required.
      
      o  The analysis is still ongoing.  The analysis text will be updated
      to integrate received comments and inputs.
      
      o  Sketched recommendations are not frozen.  These recommendations
      are provided as proposals to kick-off the discussion and to
      challenge them.
      
      o  The analysis does not cover any application-specific solution
      (e.g., HTTP header) because of the potential issues inherent to
      (TLS) encrypted traffic.
      
      o  The analysis will be updated to take into account the full set of
      SFC requirements.

  "Usage of NTP for the PDM DOH IPv6 Extension Header", Michael Ackermann,
  Nalini Elkins, William Jouris, 2013-10-03,
  <draft-ackermann-tictoc-pdm-ntp-usage-00.txt>

      The Performance and Diagnostic Metrics (PDM) Destination Options
      Header (DOH) for IPv6 defines metrics which are critical for timely
      end-to-end problem resolution, without impacting an operational
      production network. These metrics and their derivations can be used
      for network diagnostics. The base metrics are: packet sequence number
      and packet timestamp. The timestamp fields require time
      synchronization at the two end points. This document provides
      implementation guidelines for implementing Network Time Protocol
      (NTP) to provide such synchronization.

  "IPPM Considerations for the IPv6 PDM Extension Header", Nalini Elkins,
  2013-10-16, <draft-elkins-ippm-pdm-metrics-02.txt>

      To diagnose performance and connectivity problems, metrics on real
      (non-synthetic) transmission are critical for timely end-to-end
      problem resolution. Such diagnostics may be real-time or after the
      fact, but must not impact an operational production network. These
      metrics are defined in the IPv6 Performance and Diagnostic Metrics
      Destination Option (PDM). The base metrics are: packet sequence
      number and packet timestamp. Other metrics may be derived from these
      for use in diagnostics.  This document specifies such metrics, their
      calculation, and usage.

  "DHCPv6 Active Leasequery", Dushyant, Deepak Kukrety, 2013-10-04,
  <draft-raghuvanshi-dhc-dhcpv6-active-leasequery-00.txt,.pdf>

      The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6 (DHCPv6) has been
      extended with a Leasequery capability that allows a client to request
      information about DHCPv6 bindings.  That mechanism is limited to
      queries for DHCPv6 binding data updates until the time DHCPv6 server
      receive the Leasequery request.  Continuous update of an external
      client with Leasequery data is sometimes desired.  This document
      expands on the DHCPv6 Leasequery protocol, and allows for active
      transfer of real-time DHCPv6 binding information data via TCP.  This
      document also extends DHCPv6 Bulk Leasequery by adding new options.

  "Certificate Transparency", Ben Laurie, Adam Langley, Emilia Kasper,
  2013-10-04, <draft-laurie-rfc6962-bis-00.txt>

      This document describes an experimental protocol for publicly logging
      the existence of Transport Layer Security (TLS) certificates as they
      are issued or observed, in a manner that allows anyone to audit
      certificate authority (CA) activity and notice the issuance of
      suspect certificates as well as to audit the certificate logs
      themselves.  The intent is that eventually clients would refuse to
      honor certificates that do not appear in a log, effectively forcing
      CAs to add all issued certificates to the logs.
      
      Logs are network services that implement the protocol operations for
      submissions and queries that are defined in this document.

  "Service Function Chaining (SFC) Architecture", Paul Quinn, Jim
  Guichard, Surendra, Carlos Pignataro, Puneet Agarwal, Rajeev Manur,
  Nicolai Leymann, Michael Smith, Navindra Yadav, Ken Gray, Thomas Nadeau,
  Kevin, 2013-10-21, <draft-quinn-sfc-arch-02.txt>

      This document describes an architecture for the creation of Service
      Function Chains.  It includes architectural concepts, principles, and
      components used for the application of services in a network.  This
      document does not propose solutions or protocols.

  "Service Function Chaining Problem Statement", Paul Quinn, Jim Guichard,
  Surendra, Puneet Agarwal, Rajeev Manur, Abhishek Chauhan, Nicolai
  Leymann, Mohamed Boucadair, Christian Jacquenet, Michael Smith, Navindra
  Yadav, Uri Elzur, Thomas Nadeau, Ken Gray, Brad McConnell, Kevin,
  2013-10-19, <draft-quinn-sfc-problem-statement-01.txt>

      This document provides an overview of the issues associated with the
      deployment of services functions (such as firewalls, load balancers)
      in large-scale environments.  The term service function chaining is
      used to describe the deployment of such service functions, and the
      ability of a network operator to specify an ordered list of service
      functions that should be applied to a deterministic set of traffic
      flows.  Such service function chains require integration of service
      policy alongside the deployment of applications, while allowing for
      the optimal utilization of network resources.

  "Conveying path setup type in PCEP messages", Siva Sivabalan, Jan
  Medved, Ina Minei, Robert Varga, Edward Crabbe, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-sivabalan-pce-lsp-setup-type-01.txt>

      A Path Computation Element can compute traffic engineering paths (TE
      paths) through a network that are subject to various constraints.
      Currently, TE paths are label switched paths (LSPs) which are set up
      using the RSVP-TE signaling protocol.  However, other TE path setup
      methods are possible within the PCE architecture.  This document
      proposes an extension to PCEP to allow support for different path
      setup methods over a given PCEP session.

  "Test Vectors for the Stream Cipher ChaCha", Joachim Strombergson,
  2013-10-05, <draft-strombergson-chacha-test-vectors-00.txt>

      This document contains test vectors for the stream cipher ChaCha
      using 8, 12 and 20 rounds as well as 128 and 256 bit keys.

  "Multipath TCP (MPTCP) Path Selection using PCP", Dan Wing, Ram R,
  Tirumaleswar Reddy, Alan Ford, Reinaldo Penno, 2013-10-06,
  <draft-wing-mptcp-pcp-00.txt>

      MultiPath TCP (MPTCP) allows a host to use multiple interfaces to
      transfer data.  Without knowledge of the characterisitcs of each
      network path, the MPTCP stack has to send data to learn those
      characteristics.  This document communicates network characteristics
      using Port Control Protocol(PCP) to allow the MPTCP stack influence
      its functions.

  "Practical Issues with Datagram Transport Layer Security in Constrained
  Environments", Klaus Hartke, 2013-10-07,
  <draft-hartke-dice-practical-issues-00.txt>

      This document investigates practical issues around the implementation
      of Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) in constrained
      environments, and explores some ideas for an optimized version of
      DTLS that is more friendly to constrained nodes and networks.

  "Network Service Header", Paul Quinn, Puneet Agarwal, Rajeev Manur, Rex
  Fernando, Jim Guichard, Surendra, Abhishek Chauhan, Michael Smith,
  Navindra Yadav, Brad McConnell, 2013-10-07, <draft-quinn-sfc-nsh-00.txt>

      This draft describes a Network Service Header (NSH) that can be added
      to encapsulated network packets or frames to create network service
      paths.  In addition to path information, this header also carries
      metadata used by network devices and/or network services.

  "Stateless Reconfiguration in Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for
  IPv6 (DHCPv6)", Sheng Jiang, Bing Liu, 2013-10-07,
  <draft-jiang-dhc-stateless-reconfiguration-00.txt>

      This document defines a mechanism to propagate reconfigure messages
      towards stateless configured DHCPv6 clients.

  "Consensus", S Moonesamy, 2013-10-08, <draft-moonesamy-consensus-00.txt>

      Decision-making is difficult when there is a need to consider the
      interests of all of the affected parties and when it is important to
      gain widespread community consensus.  This document discusses about
      consensus.  It neither seeks to define consensus nor does it
      prescribe practices for the Internet Standards Process.

  "PCEP Extensions for Receiving SRLG Information", Dhruv Dhody, Fatai
  Zhang, Xian Zhang, 2013-10-08, <draft-dhody-pce-srlg-collection-00.txt>

      The Path Computation Element (PCE) provides functions of path
      computation in support of traffic engineering in networks controlled
      by Multi-Protocol Label Switching (MPLS) and Generalized MPLS
      (GMPLS).
      
      This document provides extensions for the Path Computation Element
      Protocol (PCEP) to support collection of Shared Risk Link Group
      (SRLG) information during path computation and encoding this
      information in the reply message.

  "A Link-Format Attribute for Locating Things", Thomas Fossati,
  2013-10-11, <draft-fossati-core-geo-link-format-attribute-01.txt>

      This memo proposes a new CoAP link format attribute, "geo", that can
      be used to associate positioning metadata to a CoAP resource.

  "Using Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) in Web Real-Time
  Communications (WebRTC)", Martin Thomson, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-thomson-mmusic-ice-webrtc-01.txt>

      Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) has been selected as the
      basis for establishing peer-to-peer UDP flows between Web Real-Time
      Communication (WebRTC) clients.  Using an unmodified ICE
      implementation in this context enables the use of the web platform as
      a denial of service platform.  The risks and complications arising
      from this choice are discussed.  A modified algorithm for sending ICE
      connectivity checks from the web platform is described.

  "2.0 Proxy in HTTP/2.0", Salvatore Loreto, Robert Skog, Hans Spaak, Dan
  Druta, Mohammad Hafeez, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-loreto-httpbis-proxy20-01.txt>

      This document defines and clarifies the role of proxies (aka
      intermediaries) in HTTP 2.0.  It aims to assure that HTTP 2.0
      contains the same proxy features present in HTTP 1.1.  It also
      defines HTTP 2.0 proxies and advocates the importance and the
      benefits that they can provide for HTTP 2.0.  This document aims to
      start the discussion within the HTTPBis wg.

  "Optimizations of State Synchronization Procedures for Stateful PCE",
  Edward Crabbe, Jan Medved, Ina Minei, Robert Varga, Xian Zhang, Dhruv
  Dhody, 2013-10-08, <draft-minei-pce-stateful-sync-optimizations-00.txt>

      A stateful Path Computation Element (PCE) has access to not only the
      information carried by the network's IGP, but also to the set of
      active paths and their reserved resources for its computations.  The
      additional state allows the PCE to compute constrained paths while
      considering individual LSPs and their interactions.  This requires
      reliable state synchronization mechanisms between the PCE and the
      network, PCE and path computation clients (PCCs), and between
      cooperating PCEs.  The basic mechanism for state synchronization is
      part of the Stateful PCE specification.  This draft specifies
      optimizations related to state synchronization procedures.

  "Trust models of the Web PKI", Inigo Barreira, Bruce Morton, 2013-10-09,
  <draft-barreira-trustmodel-00.txt>

      This is one of a set of documents to define the operation of the Web
      PKI.  It describes the currently deployed Web PKI trust.

  "Minimal 6TiSCH Configuration", Xavier Vilajosana, Kris Pister,
  2013-10-09, <draft-vilajosana-6tisch-minimal-00.txt>

      This document describes the minimal set of rules to operate a
      [IEEE802154e] Timeslotted Channel Hopping (TSCH) network.  This
      minimal mode of operation can be used during network bootstrap, as a
      fallback mode of operation when no dynamic scheduling solution is
      available or functioning, or during early interoperability testing
      and development.

  "Improving ICE Interface Selection Using Port Control Protocol (PCP)
  Flow Extension", Tirumaleswar Reddy, Dan Wing, Bill Ver Steeg, Reinaldo
  Penno, Varun, 2013-10-09,
  <draft-reddy-mmusic-ice-best-interface-pcp-00.txt>

      A host with multiple interfaces needs to choose the best interface
      for communication.  Oftentimes, this decision is based on a static
      configuration and does not consider the link characteristics of that
      interface, which may affect the user experience.
      
      This document describes a mechanism for an endpoint to query the link
      characteristics from the access router (the router at the other end
      of the endpoint's access link) using a Port Control Protocol (PCP)
      Flow Extension.  This information influences endpoint's Interactive
      Connectivity Establishment (ICE) candidate selection algorithm.

  "Service Function Chaining Use Cases", Will Liu, Hongyu Li, Oliver
  Huang, Mohamed Boucadair, Nicolai Leymann, Zhen Cao, Jie Hu, 2013-10-10,
  <draft-liu-sfc-use-cases-00.txt>

      The delivery of value-added services relies on the invocation of
      advanced Service Functions in a sequential order.  This mechanism is
      called Service Function Chaining (SFC).  The set of involved Service
      Functions and their order depends on the service context.
      
      This document presents a set of use cases of Service Function
      Chaining (SFC).

  "Additional RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Extended Report (XR) Metrics for
  WebRTC Statistics API", Varun Singh, Rachel Huang, Roni Even,
  2013-10-17, <draft-singh-xrblock-webrtc-additional-stats-01.txt,.pdf>

      This document describes a list of additional identifiers used in
      WebRTC's Javascript statistics API.  These identifiers are a set of
      RTCP XR metrics related to the transport of multimedia flows.

  "An Architecture for IPv6 over the TSCH mode of IEEE 802.15.4e", Pascal
  Thubert, Thomas Watteyne, Robert Assimiti, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-thubert-6tisch-architecture-01.txt>

      This document presents an architecture for an IPv6 Multi-Link subnet
      that is composed of a high speed powered backbone and a number of
      IEEE802.15.4e TSCH wireless networks attached and synchronized by
      Backbone Routers.  Route Computation may be achieved in a centralized
      fashion by a Path Computation Element, in a distributed fashion using
      the Routing Protocol for Low Power and Lossy Networks, or in a mixed
      mode.  The Backbone Routers perform proxy Neighbor Discovery
      operations over the backbone on behalf of the wireless device, so
      they can share a same subnet and appear to be connected to the same
      backbone as classical devices.

  "Guidelines and Registration Procedures for New URI Schemes: Problem
  Statement", Dave Thaler, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-thaler-uri-scheme-reg-ps-01.txt>

      This document describes some problems with the existing guidelines
      and procedures, as documented in RFC 4395, for new URI schemes.

  "464XLAT CLAT IPv4 Address", Cameron Byrne, 2013-10-10,
  <draft-byrne-v6ops-clatip-00.txt>

      DS-Lite [RFC6333] directs IANA to reserve 192.0.0.0/29 for the use of
      the B4 element.  This memo generalizes that reservation to include a
      similar purpose on the host-based CLAT IPv4 interfaces in the 464XLAT
      architecture [RFC6877].

  "Sleepy Devices: Do we need to Support them in CORE?", Akbar Rahman,
  2013-10-10, <draft-rahman-core-sleepy-nodes-do-we-need-00.txt>

      This document summarizes the discussion in the CORE WG related to the
      question of whether support of sleepy devices is required for the
      CoAP protocol, CORE Link Format, CORE Resource Directory, etc.  The
      only goal of this document is to trigger discussions in the CORE WG
      so that all relevant considerations for sleeping devices are taken
      into account.

  "GDOI GROUPKEY-PUSH Acknowledgement Message", Brian Weis, Umesh Mangla,
  Nilesh Maheshwari, Thomas Karl, 2013-10-11,
  <draft-weis-gdoi-rekey-ack-00.txt>

      The Group Domain of Interpretation (RFC 6407) includes the ability
      for a Group Controller/Key Server (GCKS) to provide a set of current
      Group Member (GM) devices with additional security associations
      (e.g., to rekey expiring security associations).  This memo adds the
      ability of a GCKS to request the GM devices to return an
      acknowledgement of receipt of its rekey message, and specifies the
      acknowledgement method.

  "Upstream mapping in Echo Request", Ankur Saxena, Mahesh Jethanandani,
  2013-10-11, <draft-ankur-mpls-upstream-mapping-00.txt>

      This document describes an enhancement to the Echo Request and Echo
      Response message to carry upstream mapping information for co-routed
      bidirectional MPLS-TP tunnels.

  "Terminology in IPv6 over the TSCH mode of IEEE 802.15.4e", Maria
  Palattella, Pascal Thubert, Thomas Watteyne, Qin Wang, 2013-10-11,
  <draft-palattella-6tisch-terminology-00.txt>

      6TiSCH proposes an architecture for an IPv6 multilink subnet that is
      composed of a high speed powered backbone and a number of
      IEEE802.15.4e TSCH wireless networks attached and synchronized by
      backbone routers.  This document extends existing terminology
      documents available for Low-power and Lossy Networks to provide
      additional terminology elements.

  "STP Application of ICCP", Mingui Zhang, Huafeng Wen, 2013-10-11,
  <draft-zhang-pwe3-iccp-stp-00.txt>

      Inter-Chassis Communication Protocol (ICCP) supports the inter-
      chassis redundancy mechanism which achieves high network
      availability.
      
      In this document, the PEs in a Redundant Group (RG) running ICCP are
      used to offer multi-homed connectivity to Spanning Tree Protocol
      (STP) networks. The ICCP TLVs for the STP application are defined,
      therefore PEs from the RG can make use of these TLVs to synchronize
      the state and configuration data.

  "SDP-based WebRTC data channel negotiation", Richard Ejzak, Jerome
  Marcon, 2013-10-13,
  <draft-ejzak-dispatch-webrtc-data-channel-sdpneg-00.txt>

      The Real-Time Communication in WEB-browsers (RTCWeb) working group is
      charged to provide protocols to support direct interactive rich
      communication using audio, video, and data between two peers' web-
      browsers.  For the support of data communication, the RTCWeb working
      group has in particular defined the concept of bi-directional data
      channels over SCTP, where each data channel might be used to
      transport other protocols, called sub-protocols.  Data channel setup
      can be done using either the in-band WebRTC Data Channel protocol or
      some external (in-band or out-of-band) negotiation.  This document
      specifies how the SDP offer/answer exchange can be used to achieve
      such an external negotiation.

  "RMCAT Video Quality Evaluation and Double Bottleneck Test Scenario",
  Geert Van der Auwera, Muhammed Coban, 2013-10-13,
  <draft-vanderauwera-rmcat-video-quality-00.txt>

      The first part of this document proposes video quality test scenarios
      and desired quality behaviors to evaluate RMCAT congestion control
      solutions. The purpose is to identify undesired video quality
      behaviors. The second part proposes a double bottleneck test scenario
      to provide additional insight into the rate allocation behavior of
      RMCAT solutions.

  "I2RS Large Flow Use Case", ramki, Anoop Ghanwani, Sriganesh Kini, Dave
  McDysan, 2013-10-13, <draft-krishnan-i2rs-large-flow-use-case-00.txt>

      Demands on networking bandwidth are growing exponentially due to
      applications such as large file transfers and those with rich media.
      Link Aggregation Group (LAG) and Equal Cost Multipath (ECMP) are
      extensively deployed in networks to scale the bandwidth. However,
      the flow based load balancing techniques used today make inefficient
      use of the bandwidth in the presence of long lived large flows. This
      draft presents a use-case to improve the efficiency under such
      conditions and aims to drive requirements for the I2RS WG.

  "Flow high availability through PCP", Suresh Vinapamula, Senthil
  Sivakumar, 2013-10-14, <draft-vinapamula-flow-ha-00.txt>

      This document describes a mechanism for a host signal Network Address
      Translator's (NAT) High Availability (HA) module to checkpoint
      interested connections.

  "Optimistic Encryption using TLS Signaling in the DNS", Paul Hoffman,
  2013-10-15, <draft-hoffman-trytls-01.txt>

      Many Internet servers offer content in two transports: unencrypted,
      and encrypted with TLS.  A user who accesses some content with a URL
      that indicates unencrypted (such as "http:") might prefer to get the
      content encrypted but doesn't bother to change the URL to indicate
      this.  This proposal allows Internet clients, particularly web
      clients and mail user agents, to do a DNS lookup to see whether they
      might expect content for a particular host to also be available under
      TLS.  Using the DNS for this is much faster than attempting a TLS
      session that might time out or take many round trips in order to
      discover that the content is not available.

  "MSA-to-MDA S/MIME signing & encryption", Alexey Melnikov, 2013-10-14,
  <draft-melnikov-smime-msa-to-mda-00.txt>

      This document specifies how S/MIME signing and encryption can be
      applied between a Message Submission Agent (MSA) and a Message
      Delivery Agent (MDA) or between 2 Message Transfer Agents (MTA).

  "Secure Automation and Continuous Monitoring (SACM) Requirements", Nancy
  Cam-Winget, 2013-10-21, <draft-camwinget-sacm-requirements-01.txt>

      This document defines the scope and set of requirements for the
      Secure Automation and Continuous Monitoring working group.  The
      requirements and scope are based on the agreed upon use cases and
      architecture defined.

  "Network Control Function Virtualization for Transport SDN", Young Lee,
  Greg Bernstein, So Ning, Luyuan Fang, Diego Lopez, Oscar de Dios,
  2013-10-21, <draft-lee-network-control-function-virtualization-01.txt>

      This presentation explores the concept of network control function
      virtualization for transport SDN to help evolve transport networks
      to provide programmable virtual network services with infrastructure
      changes to the traditional control plane architecture.

  "Using Partial Offers and Partial Answers in a Multimedia Session", Adam
  Roach, Suhas Nandakumar, 2013-10-17, <draft-roach-mmusic-pof-pan-01.txt>

      Whenever two hosts have the ability to set up and control a session
      on a peer-to-peer basis, situations can arise in which both parties
      attempt to change session parameters "at the same time," such that
      the session control messages cross on the wire.  When this happens,
      implementations need to invoke extraordinary procedures to return the
      shared state of the session to a common view between the endpoints.
      
      For real-time communications, these session control messages are
      typically exchanged using the session description protocol (SDP),
      using an Offer/Answer model.  This document expands the offer/answer
      model to include the ability to exchange information relating to
      discrete media streams within the session.  By reducing the amount of
      session data, the frequency of session state conflicts can be
      reduced; and, for certain types of operations, conflicts can be
      eliminated altogether.
      
      This document updates RFC 3264.

  "Stateless Client Identifier for OAuth 2", John Bradley, Justin Richer,
  2013-10-14, <draft-bradley-stateless-oauth-client-00.txt>

      This draft provides a method for communicating information about an
      OAuth client through its client identifier allowing for fully
      stateless operation.

  "Extensions to Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP)
  for handling Link Bandwidth Utilization", Wenson Wu, Dhruv Dhody,
  Stefano Previdi, 2013-10-14,
  <draft-wu-pce-pcep-link-bw-utilization-00.txt>

      The Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) provides
      mechanisms for Path Computation Elements (PCEs) to perform path
      computations in response to Path Computation Clients (PCCs) requests.
      
      Link bandwidth utilization considering the total bandwidth of a link
      in current use for the forwarding is an important factor to consider
      during path computation.  This document describes extensions to PCEP
      to consider them as new constraints during path computation.

  "An Architecture of Service Chaining", Yuanlong Jiang, Li Hongyu,
  2013-10-14, <draft-jiang-sfc-arch-00.txt>

      As network virtualization is opening the gate to much more innovative
      services for service providers, service chaining provides a flexible
      way of service provisioning and facilitates their deployment.
      
      This document provides a general abstract architecture for service
      chaining. It is a flexible and scalable architecture which can
      fulfill requirements of service chaining. Some solutions based on
      this architecture are also discussed with their advantages and
      disadvantages. This architecture can be used as a guideline and also
      a criterion for the design of service chaining.

  "Secure initial-key reconfiguration for resource constrained devices",
  Namhi Kang, 2013-10-14, <draft-kang-core-secure-reconfiguration-00.txt>

      This document presents a secure method to configure a key for a node
      when it initially joins to network that is currently in operation.
      The method is suited for a scenario, where resource constrained
      objects are interconnected with each other and thus form a network
      called Internet of Things. It is assumed that communications for all
      nodes are based on TCP/IP protocols and some of the nodes use the
      constrained application protocol (CoAP). The method does not cover
      all operations of secure bootstrapping, but it is intended to
      securely support self-reconfiguration of the pre-installed temporary
      key of new node.

  "Problems with Proxies in HTTP", Mark Nottingham, 2013-10-15,
  <draft-nottingham-http-proxy-problem-00.txt>

      This document discusses the use and configuration of proxies in HTTP,
      pointing out problems in the currently deployed Web infrastructure
      along the way.  It then offers a few principles to base further
      discussion upon, and lists some potential avenues for further
      exploration.

  "HTTP Alternate Services", Mark Nottingham, 2013-10-15,
  <draft-nottingham-httpbis-alt-svc-00.txt>

      This document introduces "alternate services" to allow an HTTP
      origin's resources to be available at a seperate network location,
      possibly accessed with a different protocol configuration.
      
      It also specifies one means of discovering alternate services, the
      "Alt-Svc" header field.

  "MSMD: Mandatory Secure Mail Delivery", Wei Chuang, Nicolas Lidzborkski,
  Elie Bursztein, 2013-10-15, <draft-wchuang-msmd-00.txt,.pdf>

      Opportunistic SMTP TLS does not enforce electronic mail delivery
      using TLS leading to potential loss of privacy and security.  We
      propose an optional mail header extension "mandatory-secure-mail-
      delivery:" and SMTP EHLO response extension "MSMD" that indicates
      mail must be delivered privately using TLS and with integrity using
      DKIM, and thereby provide a security guarantee to the user.  When
      mail is sent with the header indicating privacy and integrity and if
      the receiving party does not support this, the mail is instead
      bounced.  To protect the mail after delivery, the destination SMTP
      server must advertise its capabilities as part of the EHLO response,
      and the sender can choose whether the destination is able to honor
      the privacy requirements specified on the mail header.

  "The edns-tcp-keepalive EDNS0 Option", Paul Wouters, Joe Abley,
  2013-10-15, <draft-wouters-edns-tcp-keepalive-00.txt>

      DNS messages between clients and servers may be received over either
      UDP or TCP.  UDP transport involves keeping less state on a busy
      server, but can cause truncation and retries over TCP.  Additionally,
      UDP can be exploited for reflection attacks.  Using TCP would reduce
      retransmits and amplification.  However, clients are currently
      limited in their use of the TCP transport as most implementations
      limit the TCP session to a single DNS query and answer, making use of
      TCP only suitable as a fallback protocol for UDP.
      
      This document defines an EDNS0 option ("edns-tcp-keepalive") that
      allows DNS clients and servers to signal their respective readiness
      to conduct multiple DNS transactions over individual TCP sessions.
      This signalling facilitates a better balance of UDP and TCP transport
      between individual clients and servers, reducing the impact of
      problems associated with UDP transport and allowing the state
      associated with TCP transport to be managed effectively with minimal
      impact on the DNS transaction time.

  "Authenticated Encryption with Replay prOtection (AERO)", David McGrew,
  John Foley, 2013-10-15, <draft-mcgrew-aero-00.txt>

      This document describes Authenticated Encryption with Replay
      prOtection (AERO), a cryptographic technique that provides all of the
      essential security services needed for communication security.  AERO
      offers several advantages over other methods: it has more compact
      messages, provides stronger misuse resistance, avoids the need to
      manage implicit state, and is simpler to use.  This document defines
      a particular AERO algorithm as well as a registry for such
      algorithms.

  "Automatic Delegation of IP6.ARPA reverse zones with PD", Mark Andrews,
  2013-10-16, <draft-andrews-dnsop-pd-reverse-00.txt>

      This document describes a method to automate the delegation of
      IPv6.ARPA reverse zones when performing Prefix Delegations.

  "The 'XML2RFC' Vocabulary", Julian Reschke, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-reschke-xml2rfc-00.txt>

      This document defines the 'XML2RFC' vocabulary; an XML-based
      (Extensible Markup Language) language used for writing Internet
      Drafts and RFCs.
      
      Editorial Note (To be removed by RFC Editor)
      
      Discussion of this draft takes place on the XML2RFC mailing list
      (xml2rfc@ietf.org), which has its home page at
      <https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/xml2rfc>.

  "Service Function Chaining Architecture", Andre Beliveau, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-beliveau-sfc-architecture-00.txt>

      This document describes an architecture for Service Function
      Chaining.  It addresses operational aspects of Service Function
      Chaining such administration of Service Function Chains, network and
      forwarding principles.  It also covers architectural principles to
      support scale-in and scale-out of Service Functions.

  "PIM-Bidir RPL Resiliency", Jeffrey Zhang, Kurt Windisch, Jaroslaw
  Gralak, 2013-10-16, <draft-zzhang-pim-bidir-rpl-resiliency-00.txt>

      With PIM-Bidir, the RPA does not have to be associated with a router.
      Rather, it only needs to be a routable address on a RPL (typically a
      multi-access network).  Such a scenario is commonly referred as
      Phantom RPA.  This achieves RP resiliency to some extent, because the
      "RP" will not fail.  However, if the RPL itself partitions, traffic
      converged to one partition will not be able to reach other parts of
      the network where joins converge to the other partitions of the RPL.
      
      This document proposes simple procedures, which does not require
      signaling extensions, to achieve RPL resiliency.

  "Architecture for Chaining Legacy Layer 4-7 Service Functions", Linda
  Dunbar, So Ning, Donald Eastlake, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-dunbar-sfc-legacy-l4-l7-chain-architecture-00.txt>

      This draft analyzes the issues associated with chaining existing
      Layer 4-7 service functions that are not aware of service
      encapsulation layers. This draft also examines the network
      architecture for chaining existing L4-L7 service functions. The
      intent is to identify and describe gaps that have not been
      addressed by other SFC drafts.

  "PRISM Proof Trust Model", Phillip Hallam-Baker, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-hallambaker-prismproof-trust-00.txt>

      This paper extends Shanon's concept of a 'work factor' to provide an
      objective measure of the practical security offered by a protocol or
      infrastructure design. Considering the hypothetical work factor based
      on an informed estimate of the probable capabilities of an attacker
      with unknown resources provides a better indication of the relative
      strength of protocol designs than the computational work factor of
      the best known attack.
      
      The social work factor is a measure of the trustworthiness of a
      credential issued in a PKI based on the cost of having obtained the
      credential through fraud at a certain point in time. Use of the
      social work factor allows evaluation of Certificate Authority based
      trust models, peer to peer (Web of Trust) models to be evaluated in
      the same framework. The analysis shows that each model has clear
      benefits over the other for some classes of user but most classes of
      user are served better by a combination of both.

  "Configuration Negotiation Protocol for Network Devices", Sheng Jiang,
  Brian Carpenter, Bing Liu, Yuanbin Yin, 2013-10-17,
  <draft-jiang-config-negotiation-protocol-00.txt>

      This document defines a new protocol that enables intelligent devices
      to dynamically negotiate their configuration with counterpart
      devices.  This document only defines a general protocol as a
      negotiation platform while the negotiation objectives for specific
      scenarios are out of scope.

  "Multi-domain MPLS Deployment Enhancement", KuiKe Building, Zhenbin Li,
  2013-10-17, <draft-xu-mpls-multi-domain-deployment-enhancement-00.txt>

      MPLS as a mature technology is increasingly deployed in large-scale
      networks which consists of multiple domains (e.g., IGP areas/levels
      and even Autonomous Systems). To scale such multi-domain MPLS
      deployment, the concept of hierarchical LSPs is usually resorted.
      This document describes an enhancement to such hierarchical multi-
      domain MPLS deployment architecture that could further improve the
      scalability of multi-domain MPLS deployment.

  "Working Group Secretaries Good Practices", Martin Vigoureux, Daniel
  King, 2013-10-17, <draft-secretaries-good-practices-00.txt>

      This document is primarily intended for Working Group Secretaries,
      the role of whom is defined in RFC 2418. This document complements
      the succinct description of Working Group Secretaries' role by
      providing a compilation of good practices and some general guidelines
      regarding the fulfillment of the role.

  "Building control requirements", Peter Van der Stok, Kerry Lynn,
  2013-10-17, <draft-vanderstok-dnssd-building-requirements-00.txt,.pdf>

      The draft describes an interface to the discovery of services on a
      bounded network segment from a building control perspective.
      Building control has special boundary conditions related to: (1)
      management of devices and services, (2) an installation involving
      stand-alone networks (3) (dis)connecting network (from) to Internet
      without renaming services and devices.  Roaming devices are not
      considered in this version.
      
      Note
      
      Discussion and suggestions for improvement are requested, and should
      be sent to dnssd@ietf.org.

  "LLN Fragment Forwarding and Recovery", Pascal Thubert, Jonathan Hui,
  2013-10-17, <draft-thubert-6lo-forwarding-fragments-00.txt>

      In order to be routed, a fragmented packet must be reassembled at
      every hop of a multihop link where lower layer fragmentation occurs.
      Considering that the IPv6 minimum MTU is 1280 bytes and that an an
      802.15.4 frame can have a payload limited to 74 bytes in the worst
      case, a packet might end up fragmented into as many as 18 fragments
      at the 6LoWPAN shim layer.  If a single one of those fragments is
      lost in transmission, all fragments must be resent, further
      contributing to the congestion that might have caused the initial
      packet loss.  This draft introduces a simple protocol to forward and
      recover individual fragments that might be lost over multiple hops
      between 6LoWPAN endpoints.

  "DTLS-based Multicast Security for Low-Power and Lossy Networks (LLNs)",
  Sye Keoh, Sandeep Kumar, Oscar Garcia-Morchon, Esko Dijk, 2013-10-17,
  <draft-keoh-dice-multicast-security-00.txt>

      Wireless IP-based systems will be increasingly used for building
      control systems in the future where wireless devices interconnect
      with each other, forming low-power and lossy networks (LLNs).  The
      CoAP/6LoWPAN standards are emerging as the de-facto protocols in this
      area for resource-constrained devices.  Both multicast and security
      are key needs in these networks.  This draft presents a method for
      securing multicast communication in LLNs based on the DTLS which is
      already available in CoAP devices.  This draft deals with the
      adaptation of the DTLS record layer to protect multicast group
      communication, assuming that all group member devices are already
      configured with the group security association.  The DTLS record
      layer implementation is used to encrypt and provide authentication to
      multicast messages using the group keying material before sending the
      message via IP multicast to the group.

  "Wireless Neighbor Discovery Stateful Address Identification and
  Location exchange", Pascal Thubert, Eric Levy-Abegnoli, 2013-10-17,
  <draft-thubert-6man-wind-sail-00.txt>

      This draft proposes an extension to IPv6 Neighbor Discovery to
      exchange Stateful Address Identification and Location between State
      Maintaining Entities located over a backbone link about attached
      nodes that are attached to the backbone via a Wireless Link, in order
      to maintain all the entities up-to-date and maintain reachability as
      the attached nodes move.

  "Use case for a scalable and topology aware MPLS data plane monitoring
  system", Ruediger Geib, 2013-10-17,
  <draft-geib-spring-oam-usecase-00.txt>

      This document describes features and a use case of a path monitoring
      system.  Segment based routing enables a scalbale and simple method
      to monitor data plane liveliness of the complete set of paths
      belonging to a single domain.

  "A Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) Classifier Header Extension", Ken
  Carlberg, Toerless Eckert, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-carlberg-avtext-classifier-01.txt>

      This document defines a new RTP header extension. The purpose of the
      extension is to provide additional information that further
      distinguishes the RTP datagram (and its payload) from other datagrams
      containing the same type of payload.  The information may be used to
      assist functions performed by application layer gateways (such as
      Session Border Controller or MCUs) and/or by routers/switches through
      deep packet inspection. Examples of these functions include intelligent
      dropping of packets or (re)setting the IP header diff-serv code points
      at ingress/egress boundaries of a diff-serv domain.

  "Notifying RTSP Clients and Proxy Servers About Streams: The RTSP
  "REGISTER" Command", Ross Finlayson, 2013-10-17,
  <draft-finlayson-rtsp-register-command-00.txt>

      We define a new RTSP command - named "REGISTER" - that allows a
      server (or a third party) to notify a RTSP client or a RTSP proxy
      server about a RTSP stream (given by a "rtsp://" URL).  This also
      provides a mechanism whereby a client (or proxy server) on the public
      Internet can access a RTSP server that is behind a firewall or NAT.

  "PRISM_Proof Email Key Generation and Publication", Phillip
  Hallam-Baker, 2013-10-17, <draft-hallambaker-prismproof-key-00.txt>

      This document describes previous efforts and their deployment legacy
      and the requirements for a successful email security infrastructure.
      A gap analysis is performed and the tasks divided into problems that
      are generally considered solved albeit possibly requiring improved
      execution and problems that may be regarded as research.
      
      This division of the problem space into 'execution' and 'research'
      portions allows different groups of developers to address each
      independently and avoid unnecessary duplication of effort. A testbed
      for development and early adopter deployment that achieves this
      separation is described.

  "Name Space and System for LISP Internet Architecture", Pyung-Soo Kim,
  2013-10-17, <draft-pskim-uribis-namesystem-lisp-00.txt>

      This draft suggests a name space and system for the locator/
      identifier split Internet architecture. The suggested name system
      considers a host-centric for the current stage as well as an
      object-centric for the next stage. Firstly, a name space for various
      communication objects is defined. To consider scalability and
      distributed architecture, the format of the name space consists of
      object category, local name, domain name, and parameters. Secondly,
      registries and servers are introduced to manage mapping between
      identifier and object names with one-to-many relationship. Then,
      name registration and resolution using these registries and servers
      are described.

  "Definition of Managed Objects for IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal
  Area Networks (6LoWPANs)", Jrgen Schnwlder, Anuj Sehgal, Tina Tsou,
  Cathy Zhou, 2013-10-17, <draft-schoenw-6lo-lowpan-mib-00.txt>

      This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
      for use with network management protocols in the Internet community.
      In particular, it defines objects for managing IPv6 over Low-Power
      Wireless Personal Area Networks (6LoWPANs).

  "An information model atchitecture of network device", Xiaofeng Ji, Gang
  Yan, Yaohui Jin, 2013-10-20, <draft-jxf-i2rs-im-architecture-01.txt>

      Currently, network equipment already has some Northbound Interfaces,
      such as SNMP, NETCONF, TL1; and some languages are also provided to
      describe the data model, such as MIB, SCHEMA and even YANG.  While
      till now, there is not a clear defined information model.  In NETCONF
      domain, some standards are being defined.  In order to reduce the
      cost of NMS integration in customer side, a clear defined information
      model is necessary, just like the SID in TMF.

  "Global HA to HA protocol", Pascal Thubert, Ryuji Wakikawa, Vijay
  Devarapalli, 2013-10-18, <draft-thubert-dmm-global-haha-00.txt>

      This HAHA protocol extends MIPv6  [RFC6275] and NEMO [RFC3963] to
      remove their link layer dependencies on the Home Link and distribute
      the HAs at IP layer.  Global HAHA considers the distribution at the
      scale of the Internet, and introduces the MIP proxy for Local
      Mobility Management and Route Optimization in the Infrastructure.

  "6LoWPAN Generic Compression of Headers and Header-like Payloads",
  Carsten Bormann, 2013-10-18, <draft-bormann-6lo-ghc-00.txt>

      This short I-D provides a simple addition to 6LoWPAN Header
      Compression that enables the compression of generic headers and
      header-like payloads, without a need to define a new header
      compression scheme for each new such header or header-like payload.

  "Algorithm for Ordered Metric Adjustment", Xudong Zhang, Gang Yan,
  2013-10-18, <draft-zxd-rtgwg-ordered-metric-adjustment-00.txt>

      Upon link down event or link up event, each device in network
      individually schedules route calculation.  Because of different
      hardware capabilities and internal/external environments, the time to
      update forwarding entries on these devices are disordered which can
      cause a transient forwarding loop.  This document introduces a method
      to prevent forwarding loop by adjusting link metric gradually for
      several times.

  "Gap Analysis of IPPM Passive Measurements", Lianshu Zheng, Sam Aldrin,
  2013-10-18, <draft-zheng-ippm-passive-gap-analysis-00.txt>

      This document performs a gap analysis of the current state of IPPM WG
      and ongoing work, in terms of passive measurements, according to the
      new charter of the IPPM WG.

  "OSPFv3 Extensions for Segment Routing", Peter Psenak, Stefano Previdi,
  Clarence Filsfils, Hannes Gredler, Rob Shakir, Wim Henderickx,
  2013-10-18, <draft-psenak-ospf-segment-routing-ospfv3-extension-00.txt>

      Segment Routing (SR) allows for a flexible definition of end-to-end
      paths within IGP topologies by encoding paths as sequences of
      topological sub-paths, called "segments".  These segments are
      advertised by the link-state routing protocols (IS-IS and OSPF).
      
      This draft describes the necessary OSPFv3 extensions that need to be
      introduced for Segment Routing.

  "Test for router and BRAS devices on the degree of IPv6 support",
  Qiongfang Ma, Gu Rong, Tianle Yang, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-ma-v6ops-router-test-00.txt>

      This document introduces the test for the router and BRAS devices on
      the degree of IPv6 support.  IPv6 functions and performance of the
      routers and BRAS widely deployed in current networks are included in
      testing items.  It turns out that some specific IPv6 functions and
      performance are not well-supported by the router and BRAS devices.
      The test results have been discussed to share with internet
      community.

  "Problem Statement: Why the IETF Needs Defined Transport Services", Toby
  Moncaster, Michael Welzl, David Ros, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-moncaster-tsvwg-transport-services-00.txt,.pdf>

      The IETF has defined a wide range of transport protocols over the
      past three decades.  However, the majority of these have failed to
      find traction within the Internet.  This has left developers with
      little choice but to use TCP and UDP for most applications.  In many
      cases the developer isn't interested in which transport protocol they
      should use.  Rather they are interested in the set of services that
      the protocol provides to their application.  TCP provides a very rich
      set of transport services, but offers no flexibility over which
      services can be used.  By contrast, UDP provides a minimal set of
      services.
      
      As a consequence many developers have begun to write application-
      level transport protocols that operate on top of UDP and offer them
      some of the flexibility they are looking for.  We believe that this
      highlights a real problem: applications would like to be able to
      specify the services they receive from the transport protocol, but
      currently transport protocols are not defined in this fashion.  There
      is an additional problem relating to how to ensure new protocols are
      able to be adopted within the Internet, but that is beyond the scope
      of this problem statement.

  "Ingress Replication Tunnels in Multicast VPN", Eric Rosen, Karthik
  Subramanian, Jeffrey Zhang, 2013-10-18, <draft-rosen-l3vpn-ir-00.txt>

      RFCs 6513, 6514, and other RFCs describe procedures by which a
      Service Provider may offer Multicast VPN service to its customers.
      These procedures create point-to-multipoint (P2MP) or multipoint-to-
      multipoint trees across the Service Provider's backbone.  One type of
      P2MP tree that may be used is known as an "Ingress Replication (IR)
      tunnel".  In an IR tunnel, a parent node need not be "directly
      connected" to its child nodes.  When a parent node has to send a
      multicast data packet to its child nodes, it does not use layer 2
      multicast, IP multicast, or MPLS multicast to do so.  Rather, it
      makes n individual copies, and then unicasts each copy, through an IP
      or MPLS unicast tunnel, to exactly one child node.  While the prior
      MVPN specifications allow the use of IR tunnels, those specifications
      are not always very clear or explicit about how the MVPN protocol
      elements and procedures are applied to IR tunnels.  This document
      updates RFCs 6513 and 6514 by adding additional details that are
      specific to the use of IR tunnels.

  "IODEF Usage Guidance", Panos Kampanakis, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-pkampana-iodef-guidance-00.txt>

      The Incident Object Description Exchange Format [RFC5070] defines a
      data representation that provides a framework for sharing information
      commonly exchanged by Computer Security Incident Response Teams
      (CSIRTs) about computer security incidents.  Since the IODEF model
      includes a wealth of available options that can be used to describe a
      security incident or issue, it can be challenging for implementers to
      develop tools that can Leverage IODEF for incident sharing.  This
      document provides guidelines for IODEF implementers.  It will also
      address how common security indicators can be represented in IODEF.
      The goal of this document is to make IODEF's adoption by vendors
      easier and encourage faster and wider adoption of the model by
      Computer Security Incident Response Teams (CSIRTs) around the world.

  "A standard compliant security framework for Low-power and Lossy
  Networks", G. Piro, Gennaro Boggia, Luigi Grieco, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-piro-6tisch-security-issues-00.txt>

      The aim of this Internet Draft is to define a standard compliant
      security framework for Low-power and Lossy Networks, in order to
      enable the possibility to encrypt and authenticate messages exchanged
      by nodes at the MAC layer. The framework is fully compatible with
      both IEEE 802.15.4 and IEEE 802.15.4e standards and offers a wide
      range of security features to network architectures developed within
      the 6TiSCH Working Group. In particular, it offers: (i) different
      kinds of security architectures; (ii) an efficient mechanism for
      initializing a secure IEEE 802.15.4 domain; and (iii) a lightweight
      mechanism to negotiate link keys among devices.

  "OSPF Routing with Cross-Address Family MPLS Traffic Engineering
  Tunnels", Anton Smirnov, Alvaro Retana, Michael Barnes, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-smirnov-ospf-xaf-te-00.txt>

      When using Traffic Engineering (TE) in a dual-stack IPv4/IPv6 network
      the Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) TE Label Switched Paths
      (LSP) infrastructure may be duplicated, even if the destination IPv4
      and IPv6 addresses belong to the same remote router.  In order to
      achieve an integrated MPLS TE LSP infrastructure, OSPF routes must be
      computed over MPLS TE tunnels created using information propagated in
      another OSPF instance.  This is solved by advertising cross-address
      family (X-AF) OSPF TE information.
      
      This document describes an update to RFC5786 that allows for the easy
      identification of a router's local X-AF IP addresses.

  "Application-oriented Stateful PCE Architecture and Use-cases for
  Transport Networks", Young Lee, Xian Zhang,  zhenghaomian@huawei.com,
  Guoying Zhang, 2013-10-18, <draft-lee-pce-app-oriented-arch-00.txt>

      This draft presents an application-oriented stateful PCE
      architecture for transport networks. Under this architecture,
      several use cases are described.

  "YANG XPath Extensions", Martin Bjorklund, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-bjorklund-netmod-yang-xpath-extensions-00.txt>

      This document introduces new YANG extension statements for defining
      XPath functions.  These functions can be used in XPath expressions in
      YANG modules and in NETCONF XPath filters.  A set of YANG-specific
      XPath functions are also defined.

  "DNS Reverse Mapping for Multicast Addresses", Joe Abley, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-jabley-multicast-ptr-00.txt>

      The mapping of IPv4 and IPv6 addresses to names using the Domain Name
      System (DNS) is colloquially known as "Reverse Mapping".  Reverse
      Mapping support for registered multicast address assignments in IPv4
      is currently incomplete and ad-hoc; in IPv6 there is no support at
      all.
      
      This document describes procedures to be followed that will result in
      more systematic and predictable support for Reverse Mapping for IPv4
      multicast address assignments, and introduces analogous support for
      IPv6.

  "Requirements for a Mechanism for Remote-Triggered DNS Cache Flushes",
  Joe Abley, 2013-10-18, <draft-jabley-dnsop-flush-reqs-00.txt>

      Operational calamaties in the DNS happen from time to time, and in
      many cases problems persist due to DNS caching of bad data.  Lacking
      any robust mechanism to signal that bad data has been flushed, the
      operators of DNS authority servers often resort to unauthenticated
      requests for help being sent to mailing lists, the results of which
      are frequently unsatisfying to all concerned.
      
      This document aims to present requirements for a more robust
      mechanism by which authoritative server operators can signal to
      recursive server operators that bad data has been published, and that
      targetted cache flushes may be beneficial.

  "Extension Registry for the Extensible Provisioning Protocol", Scott
  Hollenbeck, 2013-10-18, <draft-hollenbeck-epp-ext-reg-00.txt>

      The Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP) includes features to add
      functionality by extending the protocol.  It does not, however,
      describe how those extensions are managed.  This document describes a
      procedure for the registration and management of extensions to EPP
      and it specifies a format for an IANA registry to record those
      extensions.

  "Browser processing of server certificates", Ben Wilson, Santosh
  Chokhani, Robin Alden, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-wilson-wpkops-browser-processing-00.txt>

      This is one of a set of documents to define the operation of the Web
      PKI.  It describes common variations in browser behavior related to
      processing server certificates.

  "A Unified LISP Mapping Database for L2 and L3 Network Virtualization
  Overlays", Fabio Maino, Victor Moreno, Michael Smith, Dino Farinacci,
  2013-10-18, <draft-hertoghs-nvo3-lisp-controlplane-unified-00.txt>

      The purpose of this draft is to document how the Locator/ID
      Separation Protocol (LISP) Control Plane can be used to offer a
      unified (offering L2 AND L3) Overlay solution that matches the
      framework and requirements of Network Virtualization over L3 (NVO3).
      This information is provided as input to the NVO3 analysis of the
      suitability of existing IETF protocols to the NVO3 requirements.

  "Authentication Indicator in Kerberos tickets", Anupam Jain, Nathan
  Kinder, Nathaniel McCallum, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-jain-kitten-krb-auth-indicator-00.txt>

      This document proposes an extension in the Kerberos protocol.  It
      defines a new Authorization Data Type AUTHENTICATION-INDICATOR.  The
      purpose of introducing this data type is to include an indicator of
      the client's authentication strength in the service tickets so that
      the application services can use it as an input into policy
      decisions.

  "Proactive fault detection in E-VPN", Vengada Govindan, Samer Salam, Ali
  Sajassi, 2013-10-19, <draft-vgovindan-l2vpn-evpn-bfd-00.txt>

      This document proposes a proactive, in-band network OAM mechanism to
      detect connectivity faults that affect unicast and multi-destination
      paths in an E-VPN network. The multi-destination paths are used by
      Broadcast, unknown Unicast and Multicast (BUM) traffic. The
      mechanisms proposed in the draft use the principles of the widely
      adopted Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) protocol.

  "End-to-end Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) overload control", 
  wangjinzhu, Yu Qing, Deng Lingli, 2013-10-19,
  <draft-wang-appsawg-end2end-overload-control-00.txt>

      This draft proposes end-to-end Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)
      overload control, in which the edge servers of the SIP network
      throttle the arriving calls in order to control overload for the SIP
      network.  Compared to the local and hop-by-hop SIP overload control,
      the end-to-end SIP overload control can achieve best performance.

  "Ideas for a Next Generation of the Reliable Server Pooling Framework",
  Thomas Dreibholz, 2013-10-19,
  <draft-dreibholz-rserpool-nextgen-ideas-00.txt>

      This document collects some idea for a next generation of the
      Reliable Server Pooling framework.

  "NETCONF Efficiency Extensions", Andy Bierman, 2013-10-19,
  <draft-bierman-netconf-efficiency-extensions-00.txt>

      This document describes protocol extensions to improve the efficiency
      of the Network Configuration Protocol (NETCONF).  Protocol
      capabilities and operations are defined to reduce network usage and
      transaction complexity.

  "Using Labels With DNS-Based Service Discovery, mDNS, and DNS", Andrew
  Sullivan, 2013-10-19, <draft-sullivan-dnssd-label-miprofile-00.txt>

      Despite its name, DNS-Based Service Discovery can use naming systems
      other than the Domain Name System when looking for services.
      Different name systems use different conventions for the characters
      allowed in any name.  In order for DNS-SD to be used effectively in
      environments where multiple different name systems are in use, it is
      important to follow a common set of conventions for naming.  This
      memo presents a convention for maximizing such interoperability.

  "A personal touchstone for discussions of pervasive passive monitoring",
  Ted Hardie, 2013-10-19, <draft-hardie-perpass-touchstone-00.txt>

      This document contains the author's personal statement regarding
      pervasive monitoring and it suggests a touchstone for the Internet
      engineering community to consider in protocol and system design.

  "Problem Statement for IP measurement in mobile networks", Deng Lingli,
  Zhen Cao, 2013-10-19, <draft-deng-ippm-wireless-00.txt>

      This document analyzes the potential problems of applying existing
      IP-based performance measurement methods to wireless accessing
      environments.  It suggests that more robust passive measuring methods
      and performance metrics are needed.

  "6TiSCH Operation Sublayer (6top)", Qin Wang, Xavier Vilajosana, Thomas
  Watteyne, 2013-10-19, <draft-wang-6tisch-6top-00.txt>

      The recently published [IEEE802154e] standard formalizes the concept
      of link-layer resources in LLNs.  Nodes are synchronized and follow a
      schedule.  A cell in that schedule corresponds to an atomic link-
      layer resource, and can be allocated to any pair of neighbors in the
      network.  This allows the schedule to be built to tightly match each
      node's bandwidth, latency and energy constraints.  The [IEEE802154e]
      standard does not, however, present a mechanism to do so, as building
      and managing the schedule is out of scope of the standard.  This
      document describes the 6TiSCH Operation Sublayer (6top) and the
      commands it provides to upper network layers such as RPL or GMPLS.
      The set of functionalities includes feedback metrics from cell states
      so network layers can take routing decisions, TSCH configuration and
      control procedures, and the support for decentralized and centralized
      scheduling.  In addition, 6top can be configured to enable packet
      switching at layer 2.5, analogous to GMPLS.

  "What's the Impact of Virtualization to ALTO?", Qiao Fu, Zehn Cao,
  Haibin Song, 2013-10-19, <draft-fu-alto-nfv-usecase-00.txt>

      This draft presents a use case of Application Layer Traffic
      Optimization (ALTO) with the emergence of Network Function
      Virtualization (NFV).  The Application-Layer Traffic Optimization
      (ALTO) Service provides network information (e.g., basic network
      location structure and preferences of network paths) with the goal of
      modifying network resource consumption patterns while maintaining or
      improving application performance.  The emerging Network Functions
      Virtualisation (NFV), as currently being in progress in ETSI NFV,
      leverages standard IT virtualisation technology to consolidate many
      network equipment types onto industry standard high volume servers,
      switches and storage.

  "Guidelines to support RTCP end-to-end in Back-to-Back User Agents
  (B2BUAs)", Lorenzo Miniero, Sergio Murillo, Victor Pascual, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-miniero-straw-b2bua-rtcp-00.txt>

      SIP Back-to-Back User Agents (B2BUAs) are often envisaged to also be
      on the media path, rather than just intercepting signalling.  This
      means that B2BUAs often implement an RTP/RTCP stack as well, whether
      to act as media transcoders or to just passthrough the media
      themselves, thus leading to separate media legs that the B2BUA
      correlates and bridges together.  If not disciplined, though, this
      behaviour can severely impact the communication experience,
      especially when statistics and feedback information contained in RTCP
      packets get lost because of mismatches in the reported data.
      
      This document defines the proper behaviour B2BUAs should follow when
      also acting on the media plane in order to preserve the end-to-end
      functionality of RTCP.

  "MPLS Transport Profile (MPLS-TP) Linear Protection in Support of
  ITU-T's Requirements", Jeong-dong Ryoo, Eric Gray, Huub van Helvoort,
  Alessandro D'Alessandro, Tae-sik Cheung, Eric Osborne, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-ryoogray-mpls-tp-psc-itu-00.txt>

      This document contains the updates to [RFC6378], "MPLS Transport
      Profile (MPLS-TP) Linear Protection", in an effort to satisfy the
      ITU-T's protection switching requirements.  The following
      capabilities are required by ITU-T and described in this documents:
      priority modification, modification of non-revertive behavior,
      support of Manual Switch to Working (MS-W) command, support of
      protection against Signal Degrade (SD), and support of Exercise
      command.  The behavior described in [RFC6378] are modified in order
      to preserve the network operation behavior to which network operators
      have become accustomed.
      
      This document introduces capabilities and modes to PSC.  A capability
      is an individual behavior, and a node's set of capabilities are
      signalled using the method given in this document.  A mode is a
      particular combination of capabilities.
      
      This document describes the behavior of the Protection State
      Coordination (PSC) protocol including priority logic and state
      machine when all of the aforementioned capabilities are enabled.

  "Use Cases for an Interface to LDP Protocol", Xia Chen, Zhenbin Li,
  2013-10-20, <draft-chen-i2rs-mpls-ldp-usecases-00.txt>

      The Label Distribution Protocol (LDP) [RFC5036] is a protocol defined
      for distributing labels in MPLS domain.  Traditionally LDP protocol
      may be managed via CLI, SNMP or NETCONF.  Interface to the Routing
      System's (I2RS) Programmatic interfaces, as defined in
      [I-D.ward-i2rs-framework], provides an alternate way to control the
      configuration and diagnose the operation of the LDP protocol.  This
      document describes requirement and use cases for which I2RS can be
      used for LDP protocol.

  "Use Cases for an Interface to MPLS TE", Tieying Huang, Zhenbin Li,
  2013-10-20, <draft-huang-i2rs-mpls-te-usecases-00.txt>

      An MPLS Traffic Engineering(TE) network is typically configured and
      results of its operation are analyzed by Command Line Interface
      (CLI), SNMP or NETCONF.  These interactions to control MPLS TE and
      diagnose its operation encompass: MPLS TE configuration, MPLS TE
      protection, traffic switching-over, monitoring of MPLS TE and fault
      detection.
      
      Interface to the Routing System's (I2RS) Programmatic interfaces, as
      defined in [I-D.ward-i2rs-framework], provides an alternate way to
      control the configuration and diagnose the operation of MPLS TE.
      I2RS may be used for the configuration, manipulation, polling or
      analyzing MPLS TE.  This document describes set of use cases for
      which I2RS can be used for MPLS TE.  It is intended to provide a base
      for the solution draft describing a set of interfaces to MPLS TE.

  "An Architecture of Central Controlled Border Gateway Protocol (BGP)",
  Zhenbin Li, Mach Chen, Shunwan Zhuang, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-li-idr-cc-bgp-arch-00.txt>

      As the Software Defined Networks (SDN) solution develops, BGP is
      extended to support central control.  This document introduces an
      architecture of using BGP for central controlling.  Some use cases
      under this new framework are also discussed.  For specific use cases,
      making necessary extensions in BGP are required.

  "Secure Transport for PCEP", Diego Lopez, Oscar de Dios, Wenson Wu,
  2013-10-20, <draft-lopez-pce-pceps-00.txt>

      The Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) defines
      the mechanisms for the communication between a client and a PCE, or
      among PCEs.  This document describe the usage of Transport Layer
      Security (TLS) and the TCP Authentication Option (TCP-AO) to enhance
      PCEP security, hence the PCEPS acronym proposed for it.  The
      additional security mechanisms are provided by the transport protocol
      supporting PCEP, and therefore they do not affect its flexibility and
      extensibility.

  "An Architecture of Central Controlled Layer 2 Virtual Private Network
  (L2VPN)", Zhenbin Li, Shunwan Zhuang, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-li-l2vpn-ccvpn-arch-00.txt>

      With the emergence of Software Defined Networks (SDN), the
      architecture of forwarding and control element separation will
      develop faster.  In the central controlled framework, control
      functionality of L2VPN can be done only by the Controllers.
      Consequently it can reduce control functionality in network nodes.
      This document defines the architecture of central controlled L2VPN
      and corresponding protocol extension requirement.

  "An Architecture of Instant VPN", Zhenbin Li, Yuanbin Yin, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-li-l3vpn-instant-vpn-arch-00.txt>

      With the wide application of cloud computing technology, more and
      more enterprises will hire public cloud data center resources, reduce
      their own costs.  Providers need to enterprise data center rental
      network and enterprise own network connected together, provide
      enterprise lease line services.  L3VPN is most providers provide this
      service selection.  New VPN line business needs to rapidly deploy,
      but the current technology cannot meet this requirement.  This
      document introduces the architecture to deploy L3VPN rapidly which
      can satisfy the requirement for service provision.

  "MPLS Big Label Usecases and Requirements", Renwei Li, Katherine Zhao,
  2013-10-20, <draft-mpls-big-label-ucase-req-00.txt>

      This document describes usecases and requirements for MPLS big label.
      The MPLS label format and encoding method have been specified in [RFC
      3032], the label value is represented by 20-bit space and support up
      to 1 million of instances. This proven technology has been widely
      deployed and worked fine for years. However in certain network
      deployment scenarios of recent years, the 20-bit MPLS label space is
      no longer sufficient to support the widespread adoption of network
      virtualization technologies. In what follows we will describe each of
      the usecase respectively

  "RSVP Graceful Setup Procedure", Vishnu Beeram, Igor Bryskin,
  2013-10-20, <draft-beeram-ccamp-rsvp-graceful-setup-00.txt>

      The GMPLS RSVP-TE setup procedure for transport LSPs outlined in
      [RFC3473] involves a single iteration signaling sequence. However
      there are certain scenarios, where it is not feasible to make an LSP
      fully operational and ready for use via the existing single-step
      setup procedure. This document proposes a 2-iteration setup
      procedure for gracefully bringing up transport LSPs in such cases.

  "Network Assigned Upstream-Label", Vishnu Beeram, Igor Bryskin,
  2013-10-20, <draft-beeram-ccamp-network-assigned-upstream-label-00.txt>

      This document discusses the GMPLS RSVP-TE extensions that are needed
      to let the network assign an upstream-label for a given LSP. This is
      useful in scenarios where a given node does not have sufficient
      information to assign the correct upstream-label on its own. This
      document also specifies the extensions required for manipulating
      Label-Symmetric Bidirectional GMPLS LSPs.

  "DHCP DNS Public Authoritative Server Options", Daniel Migault, Wouter
  Cloetens, Chris Griffiths, Ralf Weber, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-mglt-homenet-naming-architecture-dhc-options-00.txt,.pdf>

      The home network naming architecture as described in [I-D.mglt-
      homenet-front-end-naming-delegation] requires a complex naming
      configuration on the CPE.  This configuration MAY not be handled
      easily by the average end user.  Furthermore, such misconfiguration
      MAY result in making home network unreachable.
      
      This document proposes a DHCP options that provide the CPE all
      necessary parameters to set up the home network naming architecture.
      
      First, this DHCP options provide automatic configuration and avoid
      most end users' misconfiguration.  Most average end users may not
      require specific configuration, and their ISP default configuration
      MAY fully address their needs.  In that case, the naming homenet
      architecture configuration will be completely transparent to the end
      users.  Then, saving naming configuration outside the CPE, makes it
      resilient to change of CPE or CPE upgrades.  Such configuration may
      also be configured by the end user, via the customer area of their
      ISP.

  "Scalable Route-By-Name Routing Scheme", Joo-Chul Lee, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-lee-icnrg-scalablerouting-01.txt>

      This memo describes a scalable Route-By-Name Routing scheme for ICN.
      [ICN Challenges] describes three possible routing schemes: Route-By-
      Name Routing (RBNR), Lookup-By-Name Routing (LBNR), and Hybrid
      Routing (HR). Among them, RBNR has advantages in terms of performance
      and evolvability but scalability is a challenging issue. This memo
      proposes a RBNR scheme using hierarchically-organized name space for
      the scalability.

  "Segment Routing with MPLS data plane", Clarence Filsfils, Stefano
  Previdi, Ahmed Bashandy, Bruno Decraene, Stephane Litkowski, Martin
  Horneffer, Igor Milojevic, Rob Shakir, Saku Ytti, Wim Henderickx, Jeff
  Tantsura, Edward Crabbe, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-filsfils-spring-segment-routing-mpls-00.txt>

      Segment Routing (SR) leverages the source routing paradigm.  A node
      steers a packet through a controlled set of instructions, called
      segments, by prepending the packet with an SR header.  A segment can
      represent any instruction, topological or service-based.  SR allows
      to enforce a flow through any topological path and service chain
      while maintaining per-flow state only at the ingress node to the SR
      domain.
      
      The Segment Routing architecture can be directly applied to the MPLS
      data plane with no change in the forwarding plane.  This drafts
      describes how Segment Routing operates on top of the MPLS data plane.

  "Segment Routing interoperability with LDP", Clarence Filsfils, Stefano
  Previdi, Ahmed Bashandy, Bruno Decraene, Stephane Litkowski, Martin
  Horneffer, Igor Milojevic, Rob Shakir, Saku Ytti, Wim Henderickx, Jeff
  Tantsura, Edward Crabbe, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-filsfils-spring-segment-routing-ldp-interop-00.txt>

      A Segment Routing (SR) node steers a packet through a controlled set
      of instructions, called segments, by prepending the packet with an SR
      header.  A segment can represent any instruction, topological or
      service-based.  SR allows to enforce a flow through any topological
      path and service chain while maintaining per-flow state only at the
      ingress node to the SR domain.
      
      The Segment Routing architecture can be directly applied to the MPLS
      data plane with no change in the forwarding plane.  This drafts
      describes how Segment Routing operates in a network where LDP is
      deployed and in the case where SR-capable and non-SR-capable nodes
      coexist.

  "DNSSEC Validators DHCP Options", Daniel Migault, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-mglt-homenet-dnssec-validator-dhc-options-02.txt>

      DNSSEC provides data integrity and authentication for DNSSEC
      validators.  However, without valid trust anchor(s) and an acceptable
      value for the current time, DNSSEC validation cannot be performed.
      As a result, there are multiple cases where DNSSEC validation MUST
      NOT be performed.  In addition, this list of exceptions is expected
      to become larger over time.
      
      Considering an increasing number of cases where DNSSEC is disabled
      adds complexity to the DNSSEC validator implementations and increases
      the vectors that disable security.
      
      This document assumes that DNSSEC adoption by end devices requires
      that end devices MUST be able to support a DNSSEC validation always
      set.  This MUST be valid today as well as in the future.
      
      This document describes DHCP Options to provision the DHCP Client
      with valid trust anchors and time so DNSSEC validation can be
      performed.

  "An Architecture for a Secure Cloud Collaboration System", Cullen
  Jennings, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-jennings-perpass-secure-rai-cloud-00.txt,.pdf>

      This draft outlines an architecture for building cloud collaboration
      systems where the users retain possession of the keys to decrypt the
      data and the cloud servers never see the keys.

  "Transmission Control Protocol Specification", Wesley Eddy, Andre
  Oppermann, 2013-10-20, <draft-eddy-rfc793bis-00.txt>

      This document specifies the Internet's Transmission Control Protocol
      (TCP).  TCP is an important transport layer protocol in the Internet
      stack, and has continuously evolved over decades of use and growth of
      the Internet.  In this time, a number of changes have been made to
      TCP as it was specified in RFC 793, though these are only documented
      in a piecemeal fashion.  This document collects and brings those
      changes together with the protocol specification from RFC 793.  This
      document obsoletes RFC 793 and several other RFCs (TODO: list actual
      RFCs).

  "An Architecture of Central Controlled Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP)",
  Zhenbin Li, Huaimo Chen, Gang Yan, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-li-rtgwg-cc-igp-arch-00.txt>

      As the Software Defined Networks (SDN) solution develops, IGP will be
      extended to support central control.  This document introduces an
      architecture of using IGP for central controlling.  Some use cases
      under this new framework are also discussed.  For specific use cases,
      making necessary extensions in IGP are required.

  "Intermediate System to Intermediate System (IS-IS) Extensions for
  Maximally Redundant Trees (MRT)", Zhenbin Li, Nan Wu, Quintin Zhao, Alia
  Atlas,  cbowers@juniper.net, Jeff Tantsura, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-li-isis-mrt-00.txt>

      This document describes necessary extensions to IS-IS to support the
      distributed computation of Maximally Redundant Trees (MRT).  Some
      example uses of the MRTs include IP/LDP Fast-Reroute and global
      protection or live-live for multicast traffic.  The extensions
      indicate what MRT profile(s) each router supports.  Different MRT
      profiles can be defined to support different uses and to allow
      transition of capabilities.  An extension is introduced to flood MRT-
      Ineligible links, due to administrative policy.

  "Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) Registration of the Session
  Initiation Protocol (SIP) Feature-Capability indicators", Andrew Allen,
  2013-10-20, <draft-allen-sipcore-sip-tree-cap-indicators-00.txt>

      This document registers with IANA the SIP Feature-Capability
      indicators in the "SIP Feature-Capability Indicator Registration
      Tree" of the IANA "Proxy-Feature Feature-Capability Indicator Trees"
      registry for use with the SIP Feature-Caps header field.

  "Use Cases of I2RS in Mobile Backhaul Network", Li Zhang, Zhenbin Li,
  Dapeng Liu, 2013-10-20, <draft-zhang-i2rs-mbb-usecases-00.txt>

      In mobile backhaul network, traditional configuration and diagnoses
      mechanisms base on device-level management tools and manual
      processing are ill-suited to meet the requirements of today's
      scalable, flexible, and complex network.  Thanks to the new
      innovation of Interface to the Routing System's (I2RS) programmatic
      interfaces, as defined in [I-D.ward-i2rs-framework], an alternative
      way has been rolled out to control the configuration and diagnose the
      operation results.  This document discusses the use case of I2RS in
      mobile backhaul network.

  "Routing Authentication Policy Database", Dacheng Zhang, Sam Hartman, 
  william.atwood@concordia.ca, 2013-10-20, <draft-zhang-karp-rapd-00.txt>

      This document proposes a conceptual database, the Routing
      Authentication Policy Database (RAPD), which cooperates with the key
      table to provide the configuration information for the automated key
      management protocols in generating key materials for routing
      protocols.  Additionally, the RAPD also provides authorization
      policies so as to guarantee that the keying material for securing
      routing protocol exchanges is distributed only to the appropriate
      peers.

  "Framework of Network Virtualization Based on MPLS Global Label",
  Zhenbin Li, Ming Li, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-li-mpls-network-virtualization-framework-00.txt>

      As the virtual network operators develop, it is desirable to provide
      better network virtualization solutions to facilitate the service
      provision.  In the past years, MPLS plays a key role in the process
      of implementing network virtualization.  This document introduces a
      new framework to implement network virtualization based on MPLS
      global label.  It can provide the virtualized network topology, nodes
      and links using MPLS global label which can make up the virtual
      network.

  "ALTO Traffic Engineering Cost Metrics", Wenson Wu, Young Lee, Dhruv
  Dhody, Sabine Randriamasy, 2013-10-20, <draft-wu-alto-te-metrics-00.txt>

      Cost Metric is a basic concept in Application-Layer Traffic
      Optimization (ALTO).  It is used in both the Cost Map Service and the
      Endpoint Cost Service.  Future extensions to ALTO may also use Cost
      Metric.
      
      Different applications may benefit from different Cost Metrics.  For
      example, a Resource Consumer may prefer Resource Providers that have
      low latency to the Resource Consumer.  However the base ALTO protocol
      [ALTO] has defined only a single cost metric, i.e., the generic
      "routingcost" metric (Sec. 14.2 of ALTO base specification [ALTO]).
      
      In this document, we define XXX Cost Metrics, derived from OSPF-TE
      and ISIS-TE, to measure network delay, jitter, packet loss, hop
      count, and bandwidth.  The metrics defined in this document provide a
      relatively comprehensive set of Cost Metrics for ALTO focusing on
      traffic engineering.  Additional Cost Metrics such as financial cost
      metrics may be defined in other documents.

  "L2TP-VP: Layer Two Tunneling Protocol - Virtualization Profile",
  Duoliang Fan, Liang Xia, Zehn Cao, Namgon Kim, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-fan-l2tp-vp-00.txt>

      This document describes Layer Two Tunneling Protocol (L2TP)'s
      virtualization profile (L2TP-VP), which reuses session header of L2TP
      data message to securely support overlay networks for multiple
      tenants, and simplifies tunnel setup by disabling all kinds of L2TP
      control messages.

  "The "safe" HTTP Client Hint", Mark Nottingham, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-nottingham-safe-hint-00.txt>

      This specification defines a "safe" HTTP Client Hint, expressing a
      user preference to avoid "objectionable" content.

  "MPLS-TP PWE3 dual-homed protection (MPDP)", Weiqiang Cheng, Lei Wang,
  Han Li, Kai Liu, Shahram Davari, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-cheng-mpls-tp-pwe3-dual-homed-protection-00.txt>

      This document presents the requirements for Dual-homed protection in
      the MPLS-TP networks and defines a protocol that can protect the
      failure of an attachment circuit (AC) or the failure of a provider
      edge (PE) node or the failure of a pseudowire (PW) in the packet-
      switched network (PSN).

  "NETCONF DHCPv6 Option", Ian Farrer, Mikael Abrahamsson, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-fa-netconf-dhcpv6-option-00.txt>

      This document defines DHCPv6 options for bootstrapping the NETCONF
      protocol on devices.

  "DHCPv6/SLAAC Address Configuration Interaction Problem Statement", Bing
  Liu, Ron Bonica, Xiangyang Gong, Wendong Wang, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-liu-bonica-v6ops-dhcpv6-slaac-problem-00.txt>

      This document analyzes the host behavior of DHCPv6/SLAAC interaction
      issue. It reviews the standard definition of the host behaviors and
      provides the test results of current mainstream implementations. Some
      potential operational gaps of the interaction are also described.

  "Security Framework and Key Management Protocol Requirements for
  6TiSCH", Stephen Chasko, Subir Das, Rafael Lopez, Yoshihiro Ohba, Pascal
  Thubert, Alper Yegin, 2013-10-21, <draft-ohba-6tisch-security-00.txt>

      Since 6TiSCH forms layer 3 meshes over IPv6, use of key management
      protocols defined at layer 3 or above matches the target architecture
      so they can apply for the process by a new device of joining the mesh
      to extend it.  This document details that particular operation within
      the whole 6TiSCH architecture.

  "Pronouncing and Using Chinese Personal Names", Hui Deng, Zehn Cao, Paul
  Hoffman, 2013-10-21, <draft-deng-chinese-names-00.txt>

      This document gives general rules for how to pronounce Mandarin
      Chinese names in conversation, and how to determine which name is
      someone's surname.  It also covers some other related topics about
      Chinese names.  The intent is to allow IETF participants who are not
      familiar with Chinese to communicate better with Chinese
      participants.

  "A Traceroute Framework in IP/MPLS Heterogeneous Networks", Yuanbin Yin,
  Sheng Jiang, Zhenbin Li, Mach Chen, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-yin-traceroute-ipmpls-00.txt>

      This document introduces a traceroute framework that can obtain
      information of a real traffic flow path through heterogeneous IP/MPLS
      network environments.

  "Multi-Service Virtualization Using Virtual Line Cards", Wang Danhua,
  Wenson Wu, 2013-10-21, <draft-wang-msv-using-virtual-line-card-00.txt>

      There are many example procedures in our mind which can benefit from
      the service virtualization and the service pooling.  Therefore, we
      come up with this idea of multi-service virtualization, not only
      supports service resource pooling to realize intelligent resource
      sharing, but also makes the service much more flexible and reliable.

  "Extending multicast DNS across local links in Campus and Enterprise
  networks", Cisco Systems, Bhavik Fajalia, Ralph Schmieder, Stephen Orr,
  Amit Dutta, 2013-10-21, <draft-bhandari-dnssd-mdns-gateway-00.txt>

      This document describes the requirements for extending multicast DNS
      in enterprise networks.  It provides an overview of a solution to
      extend multicast DNS services across links that have been implemented
      in routers, switches and wireless LAN controllers.

  "RTP Header Extension for RTCP Source Description Items", Magnus
  Westerlund, BoB, Roni Even, Mo Zanaty, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-westerlund-avtext-sdes-hdr-ext-01.txt>

      Source Description (SDES) items are normally transported in RTP
      control protocol (RTCP).  In some cases it can be beneficial to speed
      up the delivery of these items.  Mainly when a new source (SSRC)
      joins an RTP session and the receivers needs this source's relation
      to other sources and its synchronization context, which are fully or
      partially identified using SDES items.  To enable this optimization,
      this document specifies a new RTP header extension that can carry any
      type of SDES items.

  "A YANG Data Model for Open IPv6 Transition", Cathy Zhou, Qiong,
  2013-10-21, <draft-zhou-netmod-openv6-transition-cfg-00.txt>

      During the transition from IPv4 to IPv6, there are many kinds of
      transition methods and scenarios that have been or are currently
      being defined in IETF, e.g., DS-Lite, Lw4over6, MAP-E, 4rd, 6rd and
      etc.  Carriers have to select and determine their transition ways
      among all of these techniques, which brings slow transition to IPv6.
      Currently, we face two main challenges in IPv6 transition: the legacy
      equipment does not support multiple IPv6 transition technologies at
      the same time and there are not enough native IPv6 applications.
      This document describes an open IPv6 YANG [RFC6020] data model which
      serves as a framework for configuring and managing an IPv6 service to
      provide a low-cost and unified way to IPv6 transition.

  "Control Plane Requirements for TRILL Active/Active Edge", Mingui Zhang,
  Russ White, ZTE Corporation, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-zhang-trill-active-active-cp-req-00.txt>

      TRILL Active/Active Edge enables a Multi-Chassis Link Aggregation
      Group to connect to multiple RBridges which can ingress and egress
      data traffic for the same VLAN at the same time. The purpose of
      introducing the TRILL Active/Active Edge is to increase the access
      bandwidth and resilience. This new access type puts forward new
      requirements for TRILL control plane. Current TRILL control plane
      need be extended in order to make the TRILL Active/Active Edge
      operational. Requirements are developed in this document as the
      guidelines for designing those specific control plane functions.

  "I2RS Use Cases for Control of Forwarding Path by Central Control
  Network Element (CCNE)", Xiaofeng Ji, Shunwan Zhuang, Tieying Huang,
  2013-10-21, <draft-ji-i2rs-usecases-ccne-service-00.txt>

      With the development of network technologies, more and more
      applications need to have a central control point for the network
      elements in one administrative domain, such central control point is
      a central control network element (CCNE).  CCNE controls the network
      elements in its administrative domain, the type of CCNE can be RR
      Router, PCE Server, or a federation of RR Router and PCE Server, etc.
      CCNE is developed from the traditional network element, which plus
      some I2RS interfaces, can provide both traditional network services
      and I2RS services.
      
      This document describes requirement and use cases for which I2RS can
      be used for CCNE device.  The use cases described in this document
      encompass: Control IP Network by RR Router, Control MPLS TE Network
      by PCE Server.  The goal is to inform the community's understanding
      of where the I2RS CCNE extensions fit within the overall I2RS
      architecture.  It is intended to provide a basis for the solutions
      draft describing the set of interfaces for the CCNE device.

  "Problem Statement for Openv6 Scheme", Qiong, Will Liu, Cathy Zhou,
  2013-10-21, <draft-sun-openv6-problem-statement-00.txt>

      The IPv6 transition has been an ongoing process throughout the world
      due to the exhaustion of the IPv4 address space.  However, this
      transition leads to costly end-to-end network upgrades and poses new
      challenges of managing a large number of devices with a variety of
      transitioning protocols.  While IPv6 transition tools exist, there
      are still new issues exist.  Operators may need various types of IPv6
      transition technologies depending on performance requirements,
      deployment scenarios, etc.
      
      To address these difficulties, a unifying approach would provide a
      unified way to deploy IPv6 in a cost-effective, flexible manner.
      
      This document describes issues for deploying multiple transition
      technologies during the whole IPv6 transition period.  It also
      discusses potential technical gaps to achieve this work.

  "IS-IS Extensions for MPLS Multi-Topology", Zhenbin Li, Quintin Zhao,
  2013-10-21, <draft-li-isis-mpls-multi-topology-00.txt>

      MPLS plays a key role in the process of implementing network
      virtualization.  [I-D.li-mpls-network-virtualization-framework]
      proposes the framework to implement MPLS virtual network basedn on
      the architecture of central controller IGP.  This document defines
      the corresponding IS-IS protocol extension and procedures to support
      MPLS Multi-Topology.

  "Openv6 Architecture for IPv6 Deployment", Will Liu, Cathy Zhou, Qiong,
  2013-10-21, <draft-liu-openv6-architecture-00.txt>

      IPv6 transition leads to costly end-to-end network upgrades and poses
      new challenges in terms of device management with a variety of
      transitional protocols.
      
      This document provides a cost-effective and flexible unified IPv6
      deployment by describing an architecture of a standard and
      programmatic manner for IPv6 deployment.

  "Multi-chassis PON Protection in MPLS", Yuanlong Jiang, Yong Luo,
  2013-10-21, <draft-jiang-pwe3-mc-pon-00.txt>

      While MPLS is deployed further and further to the access network, a
      converging network edge point which provides both MPLS and PON access
      capability appears. To provide resiliency for its services, multi-
      homing is needed to support PON access in MPLS. This document
      describes the multi-chassis PON protection architecture in MPLS and
      also proposes the ICCP extension to support it.

  "Selective Multicast in EVPN", Junlin Zhang, Zhenbin Li, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-zhang-l2vpn-evpn-selective-mcast-00.txt>

      [I-D.ietf-l2vpn-evpn] describes a solution of carrying multicast
      traffic using replication ingress and inclusive trees (P2MP LSPs).
      It does not provide the usage of selective trees for carrying
      multicast traffic.  This document provides protocols and procedures
      by which an selective tree can be used to carry traffic belonging
      only to a specified set of IP multicast streams from one or more EVPN
      instances.

  "Advertising per-node administrative tags in OSPF", Shraddha Hegde,
  Harish Raghuveer, Hannes Gredler, Rob Shakir, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-hegde-ospf-node-admin-tag-00.txt,.pdf>

      This document describes an extension to OSPF protocol [RFC2328] to
      add an optional operational capability, that allows tagging and
      grouping of the nodes in an OSPF domain.  This allows
      simplification,ease of management and control over route and path
      selection based on configured policies.
      
      This document describes the protocol extensions to disseminate per-
      node admin-tags to the OSPFv2 and OSPFv3 protocols.

  "Routing Update Mechanism for Network Service Chaining", Zehn Cao,
  2013-10-21, <draft-cao-nsc-rtg-update-00.txt>

      This document proposes a mechanism of routing the packets through a
      series of (virtual) service functions.  The mechanism uses the
      existing IPv6 Mobility Header for routing advertisements, updates and
      acknowledgements.  Comparison with existing service chaining
      mechanisms is to be analyzed.

  "IPv6 ND Option for Network Management Server Discovery", Bing Liu,
  2013-10-21, <draft-liu-6man-nd-nms-discovery-00.txt>

      This document introduces a mechanism for devices to actively learn
      the NMS server address from the neighbors through IPv6 ND protocol
      extension. It is a good leverage of IPv6 automatic features.
      
      This document only discusses problem/solution within the IPv6-only
      networks/plane.

  "Multiple Language Content Type", Nik Tomkinson, Nathaniel Borenstein,
  2013-10-21, <draft-tomkinson-multilangcontent-00.txt>

      This document defines an addition to the Multipurpose Internet Mail
      Extensions (MIME) standard to make it possible to send one message
      that contains multiple language versions of the same information.
      The translations would be identified by a language code and selected
      by the email client based on a user's language settings or locale.

  "IS-IS Extensions for MPLS Virtual Nodes and Virtual Links", Zhenbin Li,
  Katherine Zhao, 2013-10-21, <draft-li-isis-mpls-vnode-vlink-00.txt>

      MPLS plays a key role in the process of implementing network
      virtualization.  [I-D.li-mpls-network-virtualization-framework]
      proposes the framework to implement MPLS virtual network based on the
      architecture of central controller IGP.  This document defines the
      corresponding IS-IS protocol extension and procedures to implement
      virtual nodes node and virtual link based on MPLS global label.

  "ALTO Protocol Extension For Overlay Routing", Haibin Song, Yi Sun,
  2013-10-21, <draft-song-alto-overlay-routing-00.txt>

      This document describes an ALTO protocol extension for overlay
      routing.  It considers three different methods to route traffic from
      a data source to a data receiver, which are direct Internet routing,
      VPN tunnel, and overlay routing via intermediate/relay node(s),
      analyze their use cases in real world and then proposes an extension
      to ALTO protocol so as to support a ALTO client to get cost value
      between hosts via these different routing methods.

  "Using Authenticated Encryption with Replay prOtection (AERO) in SRTP",
  David McGrew, Dan Wing, John Foley, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-mcgrew-srtp-aero-01.txt>

      Authenticated Encryption with Replay prOtection (AERO) is a
      cryptographic technique that provides all of the security services
      that are used in the Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP).
      This note describes how to use AERO in SRTP.  AERO has minimal data
      expansion, avoids the need to manage implicit state, and provides
      strong misuse resistance.  These properties make it an ideal
      cryptographic transform for SRTP, as it enables SRTP to easily handle
      multiple senders sharing the same key, multiple receivers with late-
      joiners in a session, decentralized conferences with minimal control,
      and mixers that selectively forward RTP traffic.  RTP architectures
      that utilize AERO can use the normal SSRC collision detection
      mechanism, and can ignore problematic SRTP artifacts such as the
      Roll-Over Counter (ROC) and Initial Sequence Number.

  "LDP and RSVP-TE Extensions for Label Stack Distribution", Zhenbin Li,
  Lianshu Zheng, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-li-mpls-label-stack-distribution-00.txt>

      This document defines the necessary extension for LDP and RSVP-TE to
      distribute more than one label (label stack) for specific FEC between
      label distribution peers.

  "Additional Security Modes for CoAP", Ludwig Seitz, Goran Selander,
  2013-10-21, <draft-seitz-core-security-modes-00.txt>

      The CoAP draft defines how to use DTLS as security mechanism.  In
      order to establish which nodes are trusted to initiate a DTLS session
      with a device, the following security modes are defined: NoSec,
      PreSharedKey, RawPublicKey, and Certificate.  These modes require
      either to provision a list of keys of trusted clients, or to handle
      heavyweight certificates.  This memo proposes two intermediate
      security modes involving a trusted third party that are very similar
      to PreSharedKey and RawPublicKey respectively, but which do not
      require out-of-band provisioning of client keys to the device.

  "Service Discovery in the Homenet Environment with Multiple
  Connections", Zehn Cao, Aaron Ding, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-cao-homenet-mif-srvdis-00.txt>

      This document analyzes the problems of service discovery in a homenet
      multiple connection environment.  A multiple connection environment
      consists of multiple-interfaced nodes connecting to multiple networks
      or multiple provisioning domains.  Given a type of service a
      multiple-interfaced client is looking for, the discovery progress
      ought to return a correct pointer to the service instance that the
      client is able to access without trying every available channel.

  "Using BGP between PE and CE in EVPN", Zhenbin Li, Junlin Zhang,
  2013-10-21, <draft-li-l2vpn-evpn-pe-ce-00.txt>

      This document specifies protocols and procedures of using BGP as PE-
      CE control protocol for carrying customer MAC routing information.

  "Routing Optimization with SDN",  yangun@dcn.ssu.ac.kr, Young-Han Kim,
  2013-10-21, <draft-yang-dmm-sdn-dmm-00.txt>

      DMM is a mobility protocol which has mobility functions to solve the
      existing problems in the current centralized ones. However, when a
      mobile node moves to another anchor, the previous flow is forwarded
      by the previous router. For this reason, the routing optimization
      could be an issue. This draft proposes a routing optimization method
      in distributed anchor architecture. In this draft, we applied the
      SDN concept to DMM architecture for routing optimization.

  "Server-Assisted Key Exchange (SAKE): A new mode for MIKEY-TICKET",
  Alexis Olivereau, Aymen Boudguiga, Nouha Oualha, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-olivereau-sake-mikey-ticket-00.txt>

      A key establishment protocol intended to run between constrained
      devices has to be both lightweight and secure.  Among the existing
      key establishment families (key agreement, key transport, server-
      assisted key transport or key distribution), the latter is the best
      candidate for constrained devices, since it can keep cryptographic
      operations simple at nodes sides.  Nevertheless, most key
      distribution protocols exhibit an asymmetric design, since they are
      supposed to run between devices playing well-defined client and
      server roles, implying different security assumptions between the
      devices involved in the exchange.
      
      MIKEY-Ticket is a key distribution protocol that specifies new modes
      for the Multimedia Internet KEYing (MIKEY) protocol.  It answers
      situations where the network contains a trusted third party (one or
      multiple trusted key management servers).  The general MIKEY-Ticket
      mode is a key distribution scheme relying on six messages exchanged
      between the node initiating the protocol (Initiator), the Key
      Management Server (KMS) and the responding node (Responder).  This
      general mode assumes that the two parties establishing a key with
      each other play similar roles, with the only exception that one is
      the Initiator and the other one the Responder.
      
      However, this mode suffers from a risk of a Denial of Service (DoS)
      inherited from the protocol design.  In addition, the protocol syntax
      involves very large messages that would have to be fragmented, and
      would therefore not be convenient to communications between
      constrained nodes.  In this document, we propose a new MIKEY-Ticket
      mode that solves the risk of DoS during the key establishment between
      the Initiator and the Responder, relies on a 5-message exchange
      instead of a 6-message one and bases on a simplified syntax, leading
      to lighter messages.

  "ISIS Auto-Configuration", Bing Liu, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-liu-isis-auto-conf-00.txt>

      This document describes mechanisms for IS-IS to be self-configuring.
      Such mechanisms could reduce the management burden to configure a
      network. One obvious environment that could benefit from these
      mechanisms is IPv6 home network where plug-and-play would be expected.
      Besides home network, some simple enterprise/ISP networks might also
      potentially benefit from the self-configuring mechanisms.

  "Flow-Aware Transport of Pseudowires Extension for BGP", Keyur Patel,
  Sami Boutros, Jose Liste, Bin Wen, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-keyupate-l2vpn-fat-pw-bgp-00.txt>

      [RFC6391] describes a mechanism that uses an additional label (Flow
      Label) in the MPLS label stack that allows Label Switch Routers to
      balance flows within Pseudowires at a finer granularity than the
      individual Pseudowires across the Equal Cost Multiple Paths (ECMPs)
      that exists within the Packet Switched Network (PSN).
      
      Furthermore,[RFC6391] defines the LDP protocol extensions required to
      synchronize the flow label states between the ingress and egress PEs
      when using the signaling procedures defined in the [RFC4447].
      
      This draft defines protocol extensions required to synchronize flow
      label states among PEs when using the BGP-based signaling procedures
      defined in [RFC4761].  These protocol extensions are equally
      applicable to point-to-point L2VPNs defined in [RFC6624].

  "Advertising Per-node Admin Tags in IS-IS",  psarkar@juniper.net, Hannes
  Gredler, Shraddha Hegde, Harish Raghuveer, Stephane Litkowski, Bruno
  Decraene, 2013-10-21, <draft-psarkar-isis-node-admin-tag-00.txt,.pdf>

      This document describes an extension to IS-IS protocol [ISO10589],
      [RFC1195] to add an optional operational capability, that allows
      tagging and grouping ofthe nodes in an IS-IS domain.  This allows
      simple management and easy control over route and path selection,
      based on local configured policies.
      
      This document describes the protocol extensions to disseminate per-
      node admin-tags in IS-IS protocols.

  "Address Management for IPv6 Transition", Chongfeng Xie, Qiong, Cathy
  Zhou, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-sun-v6ops-openv6-address-pool-management-00.txt>

      This document proposes a mechanism to manage the address pools
      centrally.  Different transition mechanisms can require the address
      pools on-demand.  Therefore, carriers does not need to configure the
      address pools one by one manually and it also help to use the address
      pools more efficiently.

  "Address Management for IPv6 Transition", Chongfeng Xie, Qiong, Cathy
  Zhou, 2013-10-21, <draft-sun-openv6-address-pool-management-00.txt>

      This document proposes a mechanism to manage the address pools
      centrally.  Different transition mechanisms can require the address
      pools on-demand.  Therefore, carriers does not need to configure the
      address pools one by one manually and it also help to use the address
      pools more efficiently.

  "4to6: The Approach for IPv4-only users to access IPv6-only Content",
  Chongfeng Xie, Qiong, Qi He, Cathy Zhou, Xing Li, Congxiao Bao,
  2013-10-21, <draft-sun-v4tov6-00.txt>

      Current approaches can not solve the scenario that the users from
      IPv4 Internet to access IPv6-only content.  When IPv6 content are
      becoming more and more popular, it is important to ensure that IPv6-
      only content can be reachable from legacy IPv4-only clients via some
      IPv4-only network.  This document proposes an approach for IPv4-only
      users to access IPv6-only content, and can also achieve address
      sharing in the server side.  It is designed to cover the Scenario 2
      in [RFC6144].

  "Finding the Authoritative Registration Data (RDAP) Server", Marc
  Blanchet, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-blanchet-weirds-bootstrap-autonomous-00.txt>

      This document specifies a method to find which Registration Data
      Access Protocol (RDAP) server is authoritative to answer queries for
      a requested scope, such as domain names, IP addresses or Autonomous
      System numbers.

  "EAP-based simultaneous re-authentication of a group of nodes", Nouha
  Oualha, Alexis Olivereau, 2013-10-21, <draft-oualha-group-auth-00.txt>

      This Internet-Draft presents a new scheme that enables the
      simultaneous re-authentication of a group of nodes in an efficient
      manner. The Internet-Draft proposes to aggregate the re-
      authentications of multiple network nodes members of the same group.
      The scheme is based on the Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP)
      framework, defined in RFC 3748. As an example of operation, a method
      inspired from EAP-GPSK RFC 5433, is provided.

  "Address Sharing Problem Use Cases in Service Chaining Scenario", Li
  Xue, Behcet Sarikaya, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-xue-aps-service-chaining-usecase-00.txt>

      The purpose of this document is to present two use cases on problems
      arising from address sharing in service function chaining.  The use
      cases are on the parental control service and offloading service.

  "User-Agent and X-Mailer Header Field registration for Email", Alexey
  Melnikov, 2013-10-21, <draft-melnikov-email-user-agent-00.txt>

      This memo registers User-Agent and X-Mailer header fields in the
      Permanent Message Header Field Names IANA registry.

  "Route Problem at Relay during DHCPv6 Prefix Delegation", Mohamed
  Boucadair,  leaf.yeh.sdo@gmail.com, Alexandru Petrescu, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-petrescu-relay-route-pd-problem-00.txt>

      The operation of a prefix delegation procedure with the DHCPv6
      protocol may need route setup and maintenance at the Delegating
      Router, Requesting Router and on the entity on which the Relay agent
      is implemented.  This document describes the problem of routing
      during DHCPv6 prefix delegation, and is illustrated by ADSL-type and
      cellular-type of topologies which may use Relays; we refer to section
      14 of RFC 3633 which mentions the need of 'a protocol or other out of
      band communication to add routing information for delegated
      prefixes'.  Based on this problem, a number of requirements from the
      service providers are described.
      
      A small set of documented solutions are separately mentioned
      (snooping, route injection, etc.), together with their pros and cons
      according to a particular judgment.

  "Transmission of IPv6 Packets over IEEE 802.11p Networks", Alexandru
  Petrescu, Romain Kuntz, Pierre Pfister, Nabil Benamar, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-petrescu-ipv6-over-80211p-00.txt>

      In order to transmit IPv6 packets on IEEE 802.11p networks there is a
      need to define a few parameters such as the recommended Maximum
      Transmission Unit size, the header format preceding the IPv6 base
      header, the Type value within it, and others.  This document
      describes these parameters for IPv6 and IEEE 802.11p networks; it
      portrays the layering of IPv6 on 802.11p similarly to other known
      802.11 and Ethernet layers, by using an existing Ethernet Adaptation
      Layer.
      
      In addition, the document attempts to list what is different in
      802.11p compared to more 'traditional' 802.11a/b/g/n layers, layers
      over which IPv6 protocols run ok.  Most notably, the operation
      outside the context of a BSS (OCB) has impact on IPv6 handover
      behaviour and on IPv6 security.
      
      An example of an IPv6 packet captured while transmitted over an IEEE
      802.11p link is given.

  "Preliminary results about MPL performance evaluation", Pierre Roux,
  Alexandru Petrescu, Mounir Kellil, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-roux-roll-mpl-eval-00.txt>

      This draft presents simulation work and first results related to MPL
      performance evaluation.  The simulation makes it possible to evaluate
      MPL performances in the context of a large network.  The simulated
      network introduces 500 nodes.  The general principles of the
      simulator are described.  Then reference settings are introduced, and
      evaluation indicators are proposed.  Finally preliminary results are
      presented under the form of a few tables, that show the proposed
      indicator values depending on some specific parameter which is used
      as a variable argument.  Among various results, the advantage of
      using reactive mode for MPL is shown in terms of the capability to
      maintain loss free diffusion in harsh radio conditions.

  "DTLS Relay for Constrained Environments", Sandeep Kumar, Sye Keoh,
  Oscar Garcia-Morchon, 2013-10-21, <draft-kumar-dice-dtls-relay-00.txt>

      The 6LoWPAN and CoAP standards defined for resource-constrained
      devices are fast emerging as the de-facto protocols for enabling the
      Internet-of-Things (IoTs).  Security is an important concern in IoTs
      and the DTLS protocol has been chosen as the preferred method for
      securing CoAP messages.  DTLS is a point-to-point protocol relying on
      the IP routing to deliver messages between the client and the server.
      However in some low-power lossy networks (LLNs) with multi-hop, a new
      "joining" device may not be initially IP routable.  This prevents
      DTLS from being directly useful as an authentication and
      confidentiality protocol during this stage, requiring other security
      protocols to be implemented on the device.  These devices being
      resource-constrained often cannot accommodate more than one security
      protocol in their code memory.  To overcome this problem and reuse
      DTLS, we present a DTLS Relay solution for the non-IP routable
      "joining" device to establish a secure DTLS connection with a DTLS
      server.  Further we present a stateful and stateless mode of
      operation for the DTLS Relay.

  "IPv6 Tunnel MTU Configuration", Yong Cui, Cong Liu, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-liu-6man-tunnel-mtu-config-00.txt>

      It is not specific about how to decide IPv6 tunnel MTU in IPv6
      tunneling mechanisms in some situations.  This document describes the
      problem and provides a general solution to decide tunnel MTU value.

  "Updated processing of control flags for BGP VPLS", Ravi Singh, Kireeti
  Kompella, 2013-10-21, <draft-singh-l2vpn-bgp-vpls-control-flags-00.txt>

      This document updates the meaning of the "control flags" fields
      inside the "layer2 info extended community" used for BGP-VPLS NLRI.

  "IMAP UNAUTHENTICATE for Connection Reuse", Chris Newman, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-newman-imap-unauth-00.txt>

      This specification extends the Internet Message Access Protocol
      (IMAP) to allow an administrative client to reuse the same IMAP
      connection on behalf of multiple IMAP user identities.

  "The Applicability of Reliable Server Pooling (RSerPool) for Virtual
  Network Function Resource Pooling (VNFPOOL)", Thomas Dreibholz, Michael
  Tuexen, Melinda Shore, Ning Zong, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-dreibholz-vnfpool-rserpool-applic-00.txt>

      This draft describes the application of Reliable Server
      Pooling (RSerPool) for Virtual Network Function Resource
      Pooling (VNFPOOL).

  "Cloud Based Mobile Core Network Problem Statement", Dapeng Liu,
  Kok-kiong Yap, Charles Perkins, Tao Sun, Hui Deng, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-liu-cloud-mobile-core-00.txt>

      This document introduces a cloud based mobile core network
      architecture.  The motivation and the key problems that need to be
      further studied by the community are analyzed.  The purpose of this
      document is to call the community's attention and interest to study
      the key technologies and protocols to realize this cloud based mobile
      core network.

  "Bulk Network Data Collection System", Scott Whyte, Marcus Hines, Warren
  Kumari, 2013-10-21, <draft-swhyte-i2rs-data-collection-system-00.txt>

      Collecting large amounts of data from network infrastructure devices
      has never been very easy.  Existing methods generate CPU and memory
      loads that may be unacceptable, the output varies across
      implementations and can be difficult to parse, and these methods are
      often difficult to scale.  I2RS programmatic interfacing with the
      routing system may exacerbate this problem: state needs to be
      collected from nodes and fed to consumers participating in the
      control plane that may not be physically close to the nodes.  This
      state includes not only control plane information, but elements of
      the data plane that have a direct impact on control plane behavior,
      like traffic engineering.
      
      This document outlines a set of use cases requiring a flexible
      framework to collect routing system data, and the features and
      functionality needed to make such a framework useful for these use
      cases.

  "Requirements for OSPF Topology-Transparent Zone", Huaimo Chen, Renwei
  Li, Gregory Cauchie, So Ning, Vic Liu, Mehmet Toy, Lei Liu, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-chen-ospf-ttz-req-00.txt>

      This document presents a list of requirements for OSPF topology-
      transparent zone in a domain.  A topology-transparent zone comprises
      a group of routers and a number of links connecting these routers.
      Any router outside of the zone is not aware of the zone.  The
      information about the links and routers inside the zone is not
      distributed to any router outside of the zone.  Any link state change
      such as a link down inside the zone is not seen by any router outside
      of the zone.

  "Explicit Proxying in HTTP - Problem Statement And Goals", Vidya
  Narayanan, 2013-10-21, <draft-vidya-httpbis-explicit-proxy-ps-00.txt>

      This document describes the issues with HTTP proxies for TLS
      protected traffic and motivates the need for explicit proxying
      capability in HTTP.  It also presents the goals that such a solution
      would need to satisfy and some example solution directions.

  "Identifying Addresses of IPv6 Tunnel Packets at Tunnel Exit-point",
  Jianping Wu, Cong Liu, Yong Cui, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-liu-6man-ident-tunnel-packet-addr-00.txt>

      In the networks where IPv6 tunneling is used, it is not specific
      about how a tunnel end-node identifies the received tunnel packets by
      checking the destination and source addresses.  when the tunnel end-
      node is configured with multiple IPv6 addresses or multiple IPv6
      tunnel instances, such identification is necessary.  This document
      describes the problem and defines the behavior of IPv6 tunnel end-
      nodes about identifying tunnel packets.

  "Structure of the GSS Negotiation Loop", Benjamin Kaduk, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-kaduk-kitten-gss-loop-00.txt>

      This document specifies the generic structure of the negotiation loop
      to establish a GSS security context between initiator and acceptor.
      The control flow of the loop is indicated for both parties, including
      error conditions, and indications are given for where application-
      specific behavior must be specified.

  "Detecting Multi-Protocol Label Switching (MPLS) Data Plane Failures in
  Source Routed LSPs", Sriganesh Kini, Hannes Gredler, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-kini-spring-mpls-lsp-ping-00.txt>

      MPLS has defined mechanisms for fault detection and isolation and
      mechanisms for reliably sending an echo reply in RFC 4379.  Source
      routed MPLS LSPs are a technique being proposed to address new use-
      cases.  This document describes how mechanisms defined for MPLS fault
      detection and isolation can be applied for source routed LSPs.

  "Use of the Cost Community to carry the Accumulated IGP Metric", Alvaro
  Retana, Keyur Patel, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-retana-idr-aigp-cost-community-00.txt>

      This document explains the use of the Cost Community to flexibly
      carry the Accumulated IGP Metric.

  "Security Requirements of NVO3", Zu Qiang, Alan Kavanagh, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-zu-nvo3-security-requirements-00.txt,.pdf>

      This draft discusses the security requirements and several issues
      which need to be considered in securing a NVO3 network architecture
      based virtualized data center network for multiple tenants. In
      addition, the draft also discusses issues that could be addressed or
      mitigated.

  "PID Property Extension for ALTO Protocol", Bill Roome, Yang Yang,
  2013-10-21, <draft-roome-alto-pid-properties-00.txt>

      This document extends the Application-Layer Traffic Optimization
      (ALTO) protocol [I-D.ietf-alto-protocol] by defining PID-based
      properties in much the same way that the original ALTO protocol
      defines endpoint-based properties.
      
      Requirement Language

  "GRE Notifications", Nicolai Leymann, Cornelius Heidemann, Li Xue,
  2013-10-21, <draft-heileyli-gre-notifications-00.txt>

      GRE (Generic Routing Encapsulation) specifies a protocol for the
      encapsulation of an arbitrary protocol over another arbitrary network
      layer protocol.
      
      This document describes extensions to manage multiple GRE tunnels
      over multiple access lines to one home network with the purpose to
      present a novel architecture using Hybrid Access (HA) networks.  HA
      is designed to bundle multiple access technologies, e.g. fixed access
      and wireless access to one Internet connection.  This enables higher
      bandwidth for end customers.  The document describes the Hybrid
      Access network architecture and th extensions for GRE which are
      necessary to implement the HA architecture.

  "Requirements for IP Multicast Receiver Access Control", 
  william.atwood@concordia.ca, Salekul Islam, Bing Li, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-atwood-mboned-mrac-req-00.txt>

      IP multicast offers no facilities for receiver access control or
      accounting.  This document explores the requirements for such
      facilities.

  "Authenticated Identity Management in the Session Initiation Protocol
  (SIP)", Jon Peterson, Cullen Jennings, Eric Rescorla, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-jennings-stir-rfc4474bis-00.txt>

      The baseline security mechanisms in the Session Initiation Protocol
      (SIP) are inadequate for cryptographically assuring the identity of
      the end users that originate SIP requests, especially in an
      interdomain context.  This document defines a mechanism for securely
      identifying originators of SIP requests.  It does so by defining new
      SIP header fields for conveying a signature used for validating the
      identity, and for conveying a reference to the credentials of the
      signer.

  "Auditing of Congestion Exposure (ConEx) signals", David Wagner, Mirja
  Kuehlewind, 2013-10-21, <draft-wagner-conex-audit-00.txt>

      Congestion Exposure (ConEx) is a mechanism by which senders inform
      the network about the congestion encountered by previous packets on
      the same flow.  In order to make ConEx information useful, reliable
      auditing is necessary to provide a strong incentive to declare ConEx
      information honestly.  However, there is always a delay between
      congestion events and the respective ConEx signal at the audit.  In
      order to also provide a signal for risking congestion in the future,
      in [draft-ietf-conex-abstract-mech] it is proposed to use credit
      signals sent in advance.  This document defines how the signals are
      interpreted by an audit and lists requirements for an audit
      implementation.  It also discusses the security of the proposed
      system and lists potential attacks on it.

  "Traffic Engineering Database dissemination for Hierarchical PCE
  scenarios", Victor Lopez, Oscar de Dios, Daniel King, Stefano Previdi,
  2013-10-21, <draft-lopez-pce-hpce-ted-00.txt>

      The PCE architecture is well-defined and may be used to compute the
      optimal path for LSPS across domains in MPLS-TE and GMPLS networks.
      The Hierarchical Path Computation Element (H-PCE) [RFC6805] was
      developed to provide an optimal path when the sequence of domains is
      not known in advance.  The procedure and mechanism for populating the
      Traffic Engineering Database (TED) with domain topology and link
      information used in H-PCE-based path computations is open to
      interpretation.  This informational document describes how topology
      dissemination mechanisms may be used to provide TE information
      between Parent and Child PCEs (within the H-PCE context).  In
      particular, it describes how BGP-LS might be used to provide inter-
      domain connectivity.  This document is not intended to define new
      extensions, it demonstrates how existing procedures and mechanisms
      may be used.

  "Larger Packets for Remote RADIUS over TCP", Sam Hartman, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-hartman-radext-bigger-packets-00.txt>

      The RADIUS over TLS experiment described in RFC 6614 has opened
      RADIUS to new use cases where the 4096-octet maximum RADIUS packet
      proves problematic.  This specification extends the RADIUS over TCP
      experiment to permit larger RADIUS packets.  This specification
      compliments other ongoing work to permit fragmentation of RADIUS
      authorization information.

  "Label Switched Path (LSP) Ping/Trace over MPLS Network using Entropy
  Labels (EL)", Nobo Akiya, George Swallow, Carlos Pignataro, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-akiya-mpls-entropy-lsp-ping-00.txt,.pdf>

      The Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Switched Path (LSP)
      Ping and Traceroute are used to exercise specific paths of Equal Cost
      Multipath (ECMP).  This ability has been lost on some scenarios which
      makes use of [RFC6790]: Entropy Labels (EL).
      
      This document extends the MPLS LSP Ping and Traceroute mechanisms to
      restore the ability of exercising specific paths of ECMP over LSP
      which make use of Entropy Label.  This document updates [RFC4379] and
      [RFC6790].

  "Artificial MRT Islands for Keeping Detours Local", Gabor Envedi,
  2013-10-21, <draft-enyedi-rtgwg-mrt-local-detour-00.txt>

      IP and LDP Fast ReRoute using Maximally Redundant trees was defined
      in [I-D.ietf-rtgwg-mrt-frr-architecture].  In this document we add a
      simple extension to that technique, which can guarantee to keep
      detours in the part of the network, where the failure happened.

  "Evolving the Web Public Key Infrastructure", Hannes Tschofenig, Eliot
  Lear, 2013-10-21, <draft-tschofenig-iab-webpki-evolution-00.txt>

      The problems with the WebPKI have received the attention by the
      Internet security community when DigiNotar, a Dutch certificate
      authority, had a security breach in 2011 and in the same year a
      Comodo affiliate was compromised.  Both cases lead to fraudulent
      issue of certificates and raise questions regarding the strength of
      the WebPKI used by so many applications.
      
      Almost 2 years have passed since these incidents and various
      standardization activities have happened in the meanwhile offering
      new technical solutions to make the public key infrastructure more
      resilient.
      
      The important question, however, is which of the technical solutions
      will get widespread deployment?  In this document we compare the
      different technical solutions in an attempt to engage the impacted
      stakeholders to trigger deployment actions to improve the status quo.
      This document does not include any recommendations what techniques to
      use.

  "Label Switched Path (LSP) Ping/Trace for Segment Routing Networks Using
  MPLS Dataplane", Nagendra Kumar, George Swallow, Carlos Pignataro, Nobo
  Akiya, Mach Chen, 2013-10-21, <draft-kumar-mpls-spring-lsp-ping-00.txt>

      Segment Routing architecture leverages the source routing and
      tunneling paradigm and can be directly applied to MPLS dataplane.  A
      node steers a packet through a controlled set of instructions called
      segments, by prepending the packet with Segment Routing header.
      
      The segment assignment and forwarding semantic nature of Segment
      Routing raises additional consideration for connectivity verification
      and fault isolation in LSP with SPRING architecture.  This document
      illustrates the problem and describe a mechanism to perform LSP Ping
      and Traceroute on Segment Routing network over MPLS dataplane.

  "IPv6 Prefix Sharing Problem Use Case", Behcet Sarikaya, Marco Spini,
  DH, 2013-10-21, <draft-sarikaya-aps-prefix-sharing-usecase-00.txt>

      In case a given fixed network is policy converged with the mobile
      network, i.e if Policy for Convergence is deployed, host specific
      quality of service and charging can be applied to the hosts
      connecting using the wireless local area network access or some other
      means.  When local or visiting hosts are assigned their addresses
      using IPv6 prefix sharing, the edge router is unable to provide host
      specific quality of service and charging.  We explain both stateless
      and stateful address assignment cases.

  "CDNI Rate Pacing", Matt Caulfield, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-caulfield-cdni-rate-pacing-00.txt>

      Rate pacing is a class of network traffic shaping which limits the
      transmission rate of data over a network.  This document defines CDNI
      extensions for downstream CDNs to support rate pacing on behalf of
      upstream CDNs.

  "Using IEEE802.15.4e TSCH in an LLN context: Overview, Problem Statement
  and Goals", Thomas Watteyne, Maria Palattella, Luigi Grieco, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-watteyne-6tisch-tsch-00.txt>

      This document describes the environment, problem statement, and goals
      for using the IEEE802.15.4e TSCH MAC protocol in the context of LLNs.
      The set of goals enumerated in this document form an initial set
      only.

  "I2RS Protocol Requirements", Rex Fernando, Jan Medved, Edward Crabbe,
  Keyur Patel, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-rfernando-i2rs-protocol-requirements-00.txt>

      The Interface to Routing System (I2RS) allows an application to
      programmatically query and modify the state of the network.  This
      document defines requirements for an I2RS protocol between
      applications (clients) and network elements (servers).

  "Capabilities and Modes in PSC", Eric Osborne, Jeong-dong Ryoo, Huub van
  Helvoort, Alessandro D'Alessandro, Tae-sik Cheung, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-or-psc-cap-mode-01.txt>

      This document introduces capabilites and modes to PSC.  A capability
      is an individual behavior, and a node's set of capabilities are
      signalled using the method given in this draft.  A mode is a
      particular combination of capabilities.

  "OSPF Two-part Metric", Lili Wang, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-zzhang-ospf-two-part-metric-00.txt>

      This document specifies an optional extension to the OSPF protocol,
      to represent the metric on a multi-access network as two parts: the
      metric from a router to the network, and the metric from the network
      to the router.  The router to router metric would be the sum of the
      two.

  "Shared Resource Link Group (SRcLG)", Vishnu Beeram, Igor Bryskin,
  2013-10-21, <draft-beeram-ccamp-srclg-00.txt>

      This document introduces the concept of SRcLG ("Shared Resource Link
      Group") and discusses its usage in the context of mutually exclusive
      Virtual TE Links.

  "Extensions to PCEP for Distributing Label Cross Domains", Huaimo Chen,
  Autumn Liu, Fengman Xu, Mehmet Toy, Vic Liu, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-chen-pce-label-x-domains-00.txt>

      This document specifies extensions to PCEP for distributing labels
      crossing domains for an inter-domain Point-to-Point (P2P) or Point-
      to-Multipoint (P2MP) Traffic Engineering (TE) Label Switched Path
      (LSP).

  "Diameter Overload Indication Conveyance", Jouni Korhonen, Steve
  Donovan, Ben Campbell, 2013-10-21, <draft-docdt-dime-ovli-00.txt>

      This specification documents a Diameter Overload Information
      Conveyance (DOIC) base solution and the dissemination of the overload
      report information.
      
      Requirements

  "CDNI Footprint and Capabilities Advertisement using ALTO", Jan Seedorf,
  Yang Yang, 2013-10-21, <draft-seedorf-cdni-fci-alto-00.txt>

      Network Service Providers (NSPs) are currently considering to deploy
      Content Delivery Networks (CDNs) within their networks.  As a
      consequence of this development, there is a need for interconnecting
      these local CDNs.  The necessary interfaces for inter-connecting CDNs
      are currently being defined in the Content Delivery Networks
      Interconnection (CDNI) WG.  This document focuses on the CDNI
      Footprint & Capabilities Advertisement interface (FCI).
      Specifically, this document outlines how the solutions currently
      being defined in the Application Layer Traffic Optimization (ALTO) WG
      can facilitate Footprint & Capabilities Advertisement in a CDNI
      context, i.e. how the CDNI FCI can be realised with the ALTO
      protocol.  Concrete examples of how ALTO can be integrated within
      CDNI request routing and in particular in the process of selecting a
      downstream CDN are given.  The examples in this document are based on
      the use cases and examples currently being discussed in the CDNI WG.

  "6LoWPAN Roadmap and Implementation Guide", Carsten Bormann, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-bormann-6lo-6lowpan-roadmap-00.txt>

      6LoWPAN is defined in RFC 4944 in conjunction with a number of
      specifications that are currently nearing completion.  The entirety
      of these specifications may be hard to understand, pose specific
      implementation problems, or be simply inconsistent.
      
      The present guide aims to provide a roadmap to these documents as
      well as provide specific advice how to use these specifications in
      combination.  In certain cases, it may provide clarifications or even
      corrections to the specifications referenced.
      
      This guide is intended as a continued work-in-progress, i.e. a long-
      lived Internet-Draft, to be updated whenever new information becomes
      available and new consensus on how to handle issues is formed.
      Similar to the ROHC implementation guide, RFC 4815, it might be
      published as an RFC at some future time later in the maintenance
      curve of the specifications.
      
      This document does not describe a new protocol or attempt to set a
      new standard of any kind - it mostly describes good practice in using
      the existing specifications, but it may also document emerging
      consensus where a correction needs to be made.

  "ALTO Topology Service: Uses Cases, Requirements, and Framework", Greg
  Bernstein, Yang Yang, Young Lee, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-bernstein-alto-topo-00.txt>

      Exposing additional topology information of networks to applications
      and users beyond that of the current ALTO protocol can enable many
      important existing and emerging use cases, and many network providers
      already provide additional information about their networks.  At the
      same time, there is no standard for exposing network topology in a
      manner that provides simplification via abstraction to the
      application layer and information hiding via abstraction to the
      network provider.  In this document, we provide a survey of use-cases
      for extended network topology information, present some initial
      requirements for such services, and then give a framework of how to
      integrate such an extended ALTO topology service with network control
      infrastructure.

  "The User cases for Using PCE as the Central Controller(PCECC) of LSPs",
  Quintin Zhao, Katherine Zhao, Zekung Ke, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-zhao-pce-central-controller-user-cases-00.txt>

      In certain deployment networks deployment scenarios, service
      providers would like to keep all the existing MPLS functionalities in
      both MPLS and GMPLS network while removing the complexity of existing
      signaling protocols such as LDP and RSVP-TE.  In this document, we
      propose to use the PCE as a central controller so that LSP can be
      calculated/signaled/initiated/downloaded through a centralized PCE
      server to each network devices along the LSP path while leveraging
      the existing PCE technologies as much as possible.
      
      This draft describes the user cases for using the PCE as the central
      controller where LSPs are calculated/setup/initiated/downloaded
      through extending the existing PCE architectures and extending the PCEP.

  "Diameter Agent Overload", Steve Donovan, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-donovan-dime-agent-overload-00.txt>

      This specification documents an extension to the Diameter Overload
      Control (DOC) base solution.  The extension addresses the handling of
      agent overload.
      
      Requirements

  "Hybrid Unicast/Multicast DNS-Based Service Discovery", Stuart Cheshire,
  2013-10-21, <draft-cheshire-dnssd-hybrid-00.txt>

      Performing DNS-Based Service Discovery using purely link-local
      Multicast DNS enables discovery of services that are on the local
      link, but not (without some kind of proxy or similar special support)
      of services that are outside the local link.  Using a very large
      local link with thousands of hosts improves service discovery, but at
      the cost of large amounts of multicast traffic.
      
      Performing DNS-Based Service Discovery using purely Unicast DNS is
      more efficient, but requires configuration of DNS Update keys on the
      devices offering the services, which can be onerous for simple
      devices like printers and network cameras.
      
      Hence a compromise is needed, that provides easy service discovery
      without requiring either large amounts of multicast traffic or
      onerous configuration.

  "RSVP-TE extensions for RRO editing", Matt Hartley, Zafar Ali, Oscar de
  Dios, Cyril Margaria, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-hartley-ccamp-rro-editing-00.txt>

      This document provides extensions for the Resource ReserVation
      Protocol-Traffic Engineering (RSVP-TE) to allow the communication of
      changes made by a node to the information provided by other nodes in
      a ROUTE_RECORD Object (RRO) in Path and Resv messages, or to
      indicate that it has itself provided incomplete information.

  "Tackling Pervasive Surveillance or How to improve Security of the
  Internet?", Hannes Tschofenig, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-tschofenig-perpass-surveillance-00.txt>

      Surveillance is the observation or monitoring of an individual's
      communications or activities.  Surveillance is one of several privacy
      /security threats engineers try to take into account in their
      designs.  The reports about pervasive monitoring of Internet traffic
      have, however, surprised many since the scale was not envisaged
      during the design of many Internet protocols.  The approach to get
      access to meta-data as well as to communication content has taken
      forms that are largely indistinguishable from ordinary attacks.
      
      This document explains the attacks in context of the larger Internet
      eco-system.

  "(PBB-)EVPN Seamless Integration with (PBB-)VPLS", Ali Sajassi, Samer
  Salam, Nick Regno, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-sajassi-l2vpn-evpn-vpls-integration-00.txt>

      This draft discusses the backward compatibility of the (PBB-)EVPN
      solution with (PBB-)VPLS and provides mechanisms for seamless
      integration of the two technologies in the same MPLS/IP network on a
      per-VPN-instance basis.

  "Support for multiple provisioning domains in DHCPv6", Suresh Krishnan,
  Jouni Korhonen, Cisco Systems, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-kkb-mpvd-dhcp-support-00.txt>

      The MIF working group is producing a solution to solve the issues
      that are associated with nodes that can be attached to multiple
      networks.  One part of the solution requires associating
      configuration information with provisioning domains.  This document
      details how configuration information provided through DHCPv6 can be
      associated with provisioning domains.

  "Civic Location ANI Suboption for PMIPv6", Rajesh Pazhyannur, Sebastian
  Speicher, Sri Gundavelli, Jouni Korhonen, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-pazhyannur-netext-civic-location-ani-subopt-00.txt>

      This specification extensions to Access Network Identifier mobility
      option for carrying the Civic Location information of the mobile node
      from the mobile access gateway to the local mobility anchor.  This
      specificaton also defines a new ANI sub-option that enables a MAG to
      communicate how often the MAG will update the ANI information.  This
      helps the LMA determine the freshness of the ANI.

  "MSRP over WebRTC data channels", Richard Ejzak, Jerome Marcon,
  2013-10-21, <draft-ejzak-dispatch-msrp-data-channel-00.txt>

      This document specifies how the Message Session Relay Protocol (MSRP)
      can be instantiated as a WebRTC data channel sub-protocol, using the
      the SDP offer/answer exchange-based external negotiation defined in
      [I-D.ejzak-dispatch-webrtc-data-channel-sdpneg].  Two network
      configurations are documented: a WebRTC end-to-end configuration
      (connecting two MSRP over data channel endpoints), and a gateway
      configuration (connecting an MSRP over data channel endpoint with an
      MSRP over TCP endpoint).

  "Recommendations for use of TLS by Electronic Mail Access Protocols",
  Keith Moore, 2013-10-21, <draft-moore-email-tls-00.txt>

      This memo requires support for Transport Layer Security (TLS) in all
      electronic mail user agents (MUAs) and the servers with which they
      communicate when using standard protocols, including Interactive
      Message Access Protocol (IMAP), Post Office Protocol (POP) and the
      variant of the Simple Message Transfer Protocol (SMTP) used in
      message submission.  It also requires support for TLS in mail
      protocol servers provided by electronic mail service providers, and
      encourages mail service providers to migrate to requiring TLS for all
      interaction with their servers.  In addition, this memo details
      specific recommendations for implementation and use of TLS with
      electronic mail protocols used in interactions between MUAs and mail
      service providers.
      
      Use of TLS with SMTP for message relaying is described in a separate
      document, and not in scope for this document.
      
      The recommendations in this memo do not replace the functionality of,
      and are not intended as a substitute for, end-to-end encryption of
      electronic mail.

  "Resource ReserVation Protocol-Traffic Engineering (RSVP-TE) Extension
  for Additional Signal Types in G.709 OTN", Zafar Ali, Antonello
  Bonfanti, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ali-ccamp-additional-signal-type-g709v3-00.txt>

      [I-D.draft-ietf-ccamp-gmpls-signaling-g709v3] provides the
      extensions to the Generalized Multi-Protocol Label Switching
      (GMPLS) signaling to control the full set of OTN features including
      ODU0, ODU4, ODU2e and ODUflex. However, it does not cover
      additional signal types mentioned in [G.Sup43] (ODU1e, ODU3e1,
      ODU3e2) or (ODU1f, ODU2f). This draft provides GMPLS signaling
      extension for these additional signal types.

  "Residence Time Measurment in MPLS network", Greg Mirsky, John Drake,
  Keith Holleman, Stewart Bryant, Sasha Vainshtein, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-mirsky-mpls-residence-time-00.txt>

      This document specifies G-ACh based Residence Time Measurement and
      how it can be used by time synchronization protocols being
      transported over MPLS domain.

  "TRILL: RBridge Channel Tunnel Protocol", Donald Eastlake, Li Yizhou,
  2013-10-21, <draft-eastlake-trill-channel-tunnel-00.txt>

      The IETF TRILL (Transparent Interconnection of Lots of Links)
      protocol includes an optional mechanism, called RBridge Channel, for
      the transmission of typed messages between TRILL switches in the same
      campus and between TRILL switches and end stations on the same link.
      This document specifies optional extensions to RBridge Channel that
      provides three facilities: (1) A mechanism to send such messages
      between a TRILL switch and an end station in either direction, or
      between two end stations, when the two devices are in the same campus
      but not on the same link; (2) A method to support security facilities
      for RBridge Channel messages; and (3) A method to tunnel a variety of
      payload types by encapsulating them in an RBridge Channel message.

  "Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for
  remote-initiated LSP Usage", Zafar Ali, Siva Sivabalan, Clarence
  Filsfils, Robert Varga, Victor Lopez, Oscar de Dios, Xian Zhang,
  2013-10-21, <draft-ali-pce-remote-initiated-lsp-usage-00.txt,.pdf>

      When active stateful PCE is used for managing PCE-initiated LSP,
      PCC may not be aware of the intended usage of the LSP (e.g., in a
      multi-layer network). PCEP Extensions for PCE-initiated MPLS and
      GMPLS LSP Setup specifications do not address this requirement.
      This draft addresses the requirement to specify on how PCC should
      use the remote initiated LSPs.

  "Deprecating EUI-64 Based IPv6 Addresses", Fernando Gont, Alissa Cooper,
  Dave Thaler, Will Liu, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-gont-6man-deprecate-eui64-based-addresses-00.txt>

      Stateless Address Autoconfiguration (SLAAC) for IPv6 typically
      results in hosts configuring one or more stable addresses composed of
      a network prefix advertised by a local router, and an Interface
      Identifier that typically embeds a hardware address (e.g., an IEEE
      LAN MAC address).  The security and privacy implications of embedding
      hardware addresses in the Interface Identifier have been known and
      understood for some time now, and some popular IPv6 implementations
      have already deviated from such scheme to mitigate these issues.
      This document deprecates the use of hardware addresses in IPv6
      Interface Identifiers, and recommends the use of an alternative
      scheme ([I-D.ietf-6man-stable-privacy-addresses]) for the generation
      of IPv6 stable addresses.

  "Using Entropy as a Measure for Changes in Network Complexity", Rana
  Sircar, Michael Behringer, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-sircar-complexity-entropy-00.txt>

      For the evaluation of network designs it is desirable to express
      their complexity in objective, measurable metrics.  Previous work has
      shown that a large number of distinct, partly dependent scales play a
      role in overall complexity.  This document proposes the use of multi-
      scale entropy metrics to describe the complexity of a network.  We
      observe that the complexity of a network which undergoes no changes
      over a longer time period is constant.  Conversely, when a network
      undergoes changes entropy is increasing; this is independent on
      whether the changes make the network more or less complex.  In other
      words, also a simplification effort increases complexity temporarily.

  "Using Authenticated Encryption with Replay prOtection (AERO) in
  Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)", David McGrew, John Foley,
  Joseph Salowey, 2013-10-21, <draft-mcgrew-dtls-aero-00.txt>

      Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) is a communication security
      protocol that is attractive for use in constrained environments, in
      which it is important to minimize the data expansion added by the
      security protocol, and to support multicast security .  Authenticated
      Encryption with Replay prOtection (AERO) is a cryptographic technique
      that is well suited for use in DTLS, especially in these scenarios:
      it has minimal data expansion, avoids the need to manage implicit
      state, works well with multiple receivers and multiple senders, and
      provides strong misuse resistance.  This document describes how AERO
      can be used in DTLS.

  "Yang Data Model for OSPF Protocol", Derek Yeung, Yingzhen Qu, Alex
  Clemm, 2013-10-21, <draft-yeung-netmod-ospf-00.txt>

      This document defines a YANG data model that can be used to configure
      and manage OSPF.

  "PCE Path Profiles", Santiago Alvarez, Siva Sivabalan, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-alvarez-pce-path-profiles-00.txt>

      This document describes extensions to the Path Computation Element
      (PCE) Communication Protocol (PCEP) to signal path profiles.  A
      stateful or stateless path computation element (PCE) can maintain an
      association between a set of path parameters and a profile.  A PCC
      can use the path profile to initiate a path computation request
      without having to specify a detailed list of path parameters.  In
      addition, a PCC can use the path profile to implement local policies
      associated with a path.

  "Support for multiple provisioning domains in IPv6 Neighbor Discovery
  Protocol", Jouni Korhonen, Suresh Krishnan, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-kk-mpvd-ndp-support-00.txt>

      The MIF working group is producing a solution to solve the issues
      that are associated with nodes that can be attached to multiple
      networks.  One part of the solution requires associating
      configuration information with provisioning domains.  This document
      details how configuration information provided through IPv6 Neighbor
      Discovery Protocol can be associated with provisioning domains.

  "Interface ID lifetime Algorithms",  Hosnieh, Christoph Meinel, Erik
  Nordmark, 2013-10-21, <draft-rafiee-v6ops-iid-lifetime-00.txt>

      This document introduces a framework, i.e., an application layer
      based lifetime [applicationiid] to enable applications maintaining
      their users' privacy as well as controlling the number of Interface
      IDs (IIDs) per network adapter. It will also explain different
      approaches that can be used for maintaining the lifetime of an IID.
      We also compare this framework to the other available mechanisms.
      This document also explains when to remove deprecated IP addresses
      from the a network interface.

  "Frame marking for RTP packets", Espen Berger, Suhas Nandakumar,
  2013-10-21, <draft-avtext-berger-framemarking-00.txt>

      This document describes a mechanisms to provide frame markings to
      allow RTP switches to perform stream operations on encrypted payload.
      The mechanisms support extensions to allow for codec specific
      information.

  "Use of Fingerprints for Identifying Certificates in the Session
  Description Protocol (SDP)", Martin Thomson, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-thomson-mmusic-fingerprint-00.txt>

      The Session Description Protocol (SDP) fingerprint attribute binds a
      session description to an X.509 certificate.  This document describes
      how hash agility is achieved without backwards compatibility issues.
      This document also describes how the fingerprint attribute can be
      used to identify a set of valid certificates.
      
      This document updates RFC4572.

  "Architecture for IP Multicast Receiver Access Control", 
  william.atwood@concordia.ca, Bing Li, Salekul Islam, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-atwood-mboned-mrac-arch-00.txt>

      This document specifies the architecture of IP multicast receiver
      access control (MRAC).  The interacting components, the protocols and
      the operations in MRAC system are specified in this document.

  "Requirements for Scalable DNS-SD/mDNS Extensions", Kerry Lynn, Stuart
  Cheshire, 2013-10-21, <draft-lynn-dnssd-requirements-00.txt>

      DNS-SD/mDNS is widely used today for discovery and resolution of
      services and names on a local link, but there are use cases to extend
      DNS-SD/mDNS to enable service discovery beyond the local link.  This
      document provides a problem statement and a list of requirements.

  "Service Provider Edge Router Interaction", Timothy Winters, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-winters-homenet-sper-interaction-00.txt>

      This document describes the interaction between a Service Provider
      Gateway fixed at the home edge, and the Home Networking interior
      routers.  Assessing the interactions between existing routers
      implementing 6204bis and the Home Networking routers.  The document
      will also define the interactions with the HIPnet edge router and
      Home Networking router.

  "Use Cases and Requirements for MPLS-TP multi-failure protection",
  Zhenlong Cui, Rolf Winter, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-cui-mpls-tp-mfp-use-case-and-requirements-00.txt>

      This document describes the use cases and requirements for multi-
      failure protection (MFP) in MPLS-TP networks.  This document would be
      used to implement MFP for MPLS-TP data paths without any control
      plane.

  "6TiSCH Data Model for CoAP", Raghuram Sudhaakar, Pouria Zand,
  2013-10-22, <draft-sudhaakar-6tisch-coap-00.txt>

      The [IEEE802154e] standardizes the TSCH mode of operation and defines
      the mechanisms for layer 2 communication between conforming devices.
      6top defines a set of commands to monitor and manage the TSCH
      schedule.  To realize the full functionality of sensor networks and
      allow their adoption and use in real applications we need additional
      mechanisms.  Specifically, we need to define how to interact with
      6top, control and modify schedules, monitor parameters etc.  Higher
      layers monitoring and management entities are then able to use these
      capabilities to create feedback loops.  Although, there have been
      many custom implementations of such feedback loops between the
      routing, transport and MAC layers in sensor network deployments,
      there has been a lack of standards based approaches.  The goal of the
      memo is to define a generic data model between monitoring and
      management entities and the 6top layer and define a mapping to the
      6top commands.  The document also presents a particular
      implementation of the model based on CoAP and CBOR.

  "Management of Networks with Constrained Devices: Problem Statement and
  Requirements", Mehmet Ersue, Dan Romascanu, Jrgen Schnwlder,
  2013-10-25, <draft-ersue-opsawg-coman-probstate-reqs-00.txt>

      This document provides a problem statement, deployment and management
      topology options as well as the requirements for the management of
      networks where constrained devices are involved.

  "Management of Networks with Constrained Devices: Use Cases", Mehmet
  Ersue, Dan Romascanu, Jrgen Schnwlder, 2013-10-25,
  <draft-ersue-opsawg-coman-use-cases-00.txt>

      This document discusses the use cases concerning the management of
      networks, where constrained devices are involved.  A problem
      statement, deployment options and the requirements on the networks
      with constrained devices can be found in the companion document [COM-
      REQ].

Network Time Protocol (ntp)
---------------------------

  "Network Time Security", Dieter Sibold, Stephen Roettger, Kristof
  Teichel, 2013-10-18, <draft-ietf-ntp-network-time-security-01.txt>

      This document describes the Network Time Security (NTS) protocol that
      enables secure authentication of time servers using Network Time
      Protocol (NTP) or Precision Time Protocol (PTP).  Its design
      considers the special requirements of precise timekeeping, which are
      described in Security Requirements of Time Protocols in Packet
      Switched Network [I-D.ietf-tictoc-security-requirements].

Network Virtualization Overlays (nvo3)
--------------------------------------

  "Problem Statement: Overlays for Network Virtualization", Thomas Narten,
  Eric Gray, David Black, Luyuan Fang, Lawrence Kreeger, Maria Napierala,
  2013-07-31, <draft-ietf-nvo3-overlay-problem-statement-04.txt>

      This document describes issues associated with providing multi-
      tenancy in large data center networks and how these issues may be
      addressed using an overlay-based network virtualization approach.  A
      key multi-tenancy requirement is traffic isolation, so that one
      tenant's traffic is not visible to any other tenant.  Another
      requirement is address space isolation, so that different tenants can
      use the same address space within different virtual networks.
      Traffic and address space isolation is achieved by assigning one or
      more virtual networks to each tenant, where traffic within a virtual
      network can only cross into another virtual network in a controlled
      fashion (e.g., via a configured router and/or a security gateway).
      Additional functionality is required to provision virtual networks,
      associating a virtual machine's network interface(s) with the
      appropriate virtual network, and maintaining that association as the
      virtual machine is activated, migrated and/or deactivated.  Use of an
      overlay-based approach enables scalable deployment on large network
      infrastructures.

  "Framework for DC Network Virtualization", Marc Lasserre, Florin Balus,
  Thomas Morin, Nabil Bitar, Yakov Rekhter, 2013-07-04,
  <draft-ietf-nvo3-framework-03.txt>

      Several IETF drafts relate to the use of overlay networks to support
      large scale virtual data centers. This draft provides a framework
      for Network Virtualization over L3 (NVO3) and is intended to help
      plan a set of work items in order to provide a complete solution
      set. It defines a logical view of the main components with the
      intention of streamlining the terminology and focusing the solution
      set.

  "NVO3 Data Plane Requirements", Nabil Bitar, Marc Lasserre, Florin
  Balus, Thomas Morin, Lizhong Jin, Bhumip Khasnabish, 2013-07-01,
  <draft-ietf-nvo3-dataplane-requirements-01.txt>

      Several IETF drafts relate to the use of overlay networks to support
      large scale virtual data centers. This draft provides a list of data
      plane requirements for Network Virtualization over L3 (NVO3) that
      have to be addressed in solutions documents.

  "Network-related VM Mobility Issues", Yakov Rekhter, Wim Henderickx,
  Ravi Shekhar, Luyuan Fang, Linda Dunbar, Ali Sajassi, 2013-06-10,
  <draft-ietf-nvo3-vm-mobility-issues-01.txt>

      This document describes a set of network-related issues presented by
      the desire to support seamless Virtual Machine mobility in the data
      center and between data centers. In particular, it looks at the
      implications of meeting the requirements for "seamless mobility".

  "Use Cases for DC Network Virtualization Overlays", Lucy Yong, Mehmet
  Toy, Aldrin Isaac, Vishwas Manral, Linda Dunbar, 2013-07-11,
  <draft-ietf-nvo3-use-case-02.txt>

      This document describes the DC Network Virtualization (NVO3) use
      cases that may be potentially deployed in various data centers and
      apply to different applications.

  "Network Virtualization NVE to NVA Control Protocol Requirements",
  Lawrence Kreeger, Dinesh Dutt, Thomas Narten, David Black, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-nvo3-nve-nva-cp-req-01.txt>

      The document "Problem Statement: Overlays for Network Virtualization"
      discusses the needs for network virtualization using overlay networks
      in highly virtualized data centers.  The problem statement outlines a
      need for control protocols to facilitate running these overlay
      networks.  This document outlines the high level requirements to be
      fulfilled by the control protocols related to building and managing
      the mapping tables and other state information used by the Network
      Virtualization Edge to transmit encapsulated packets across the
      underlying network.

  "NVO3 Gap Analysis - Requirements Versus Available Technology Choices",
  Eric Gray, Nabil Bitar, Xiaoming Chen, Marc Lasserre, Tina Tsou,
  2013-09-25, <draft-ietf-nvo3-gap-analysis-00.txt>

      This document evaluates candidate protocols against the NVO3
      requirements.  Gaps are identified and further work recommended.

  "Security Requirements of NVO3", Sam Hartman, Dacheng Zhang, Margaret
  Wasserman, 2013-10-22, <draft-ietf-nvo3-security-requirements-01.txt>

      The draft provides a list of security requirements to benefit the
      design of NOV3 security mechanisms.  In addition, this draft
      introduces the candidate techniques which could be used to fulfill
      such security requirements.

Web Authorization Protocol (oauth)
----------------------------------

  "SAML 2.0 Profile for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization
  Grants", Brian Campbell, Chuck Mortimore, Michael Jones, 2013-07-14,
  <draft-ietf-oauth-saml2-bearer-17.txt,.pdf>

      This specification defines the use of a SAML 2.0 Bearer Assertion as
      a means for requesting an OAuth 2.0 access token as well as for use
      as a means of client authentication.

  "OAuth 2.0 Message Authentication Code (MAC) Tokens", Justin Richer,
  William Mills, Hannes Tschofenig, Phil Hunt, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-ietf-oauth-v2-http-mac-04.txt>

      This specification describes how to use MAC Tokens in HTTP requests
      to access OAuth 2.0 protected resources.  An OAuth client willing to
      access a protected resource needs to demonstrate possession of a
      crytographic key by using it with a keyed message digest function to
      the request.
      
      The document also defines a key distribution protocol for obtaining a
      fresh session key.

  "Assertion Framework for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and
  Authorization Grants", Brian Campbell, Chuck Mortimore, Michael Jones,
  Yaron Goland, 2013-07-14, <draft-ietf-oauth-assertions-12.txt,.pdf>

      This specification provides a framework for the use of assertions
      with OAuth 2.0 in the form of a new client authentication mechanism
      and a new authorization grant type.  Mechanisms are specified for
      transporting assertions during interactions with a token endpoint, as
      well as general processing rules.
      
      The intent of this specification is to provide a common framework for
      OAuth 2.0 to interwork with other identity systems using assertions,
      and to provide alternative client authentication mechanisms.
      
      Note that this specification only defines abstract message flows and
      processing rules.  In order to be implementable, companion
      specifications are necessary to provide the corresponding concrete
      instantiations.

  "JSON Web Token (JWT) Profile for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and
  Authorization Grants", Michael Jones, Brian Campbell, Chuck Mortimore,
  2013-07-14, <draft-ietf-oauth-jwt-bearer-06.txt,.pdf>

      This specification defines the use of a JSON Web Token (JWT) Bearer
      Token as a means for requesting an OAuth 2.0 access token as well as
      for use as a means of client authentication.

  "JSON Web Token (JWT)", Michael Jones, John Bradley, Nat Sakimura,
  2013-10-07, <draft-ietf-oauth-json-web-token-12.txt,.pdf>

      JSON Web Token (JWT) is a compact URL-safe means of representing
      claims to be transferred between two parties.  The claims in a JWT
      are encoded as a JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) object that is
      used as the payload of a JSON Web Signature (JWS) structure or as the
      plaintext of a JSON Web Encryption (JWE) structure, enabling the
      claims to be digitally signed or MACed and/or encrypted.
      
      The suggested pronunciation of JWT is the same as the English word
      "jot".

  "OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol", Justin Richer, John
  Bradley, Michael Jones, Maciej Machulak, 2013-07-29,
  <draft-ietf-oauth-dyn-reg-14.txt>

      This specification defines an endpoint and protocol for dynamic
      registration of OAuth 2.0 clients at an authorization server and
      methods for the dynamically registered client to manage its
      registration through an OAuth 2.0 protected web API.

Operations and Management Area (ops)
------------------------------------

  "Revision of the tcpControlBits IPFIX Information Element", Brian
  Trammell, Paul Aitken, 2013-10-07,
  <draft-trammell-ipfix-tcpcontrolbits-revision-04.txt>

      This document revises the tcpControlBits IPFIX Information Element as
      originally defined in [RFC5102] to reflect changes to the TCP Flags
      header field since [RFC0793].

Operations and Management Area Working Group (opsawg)
-----------------------------------------------------

  "An Overview of Operations, Administration, and Maintenance (OAM) Data
  Plane Tools", Tal Mizrahi, Nurit Sprecher, Elisa Bellagamba, Yaacov
  Weingarten, 2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-opsawg-oam-overview-10.txt>

      Operations, Administration, and Maintenance (OAM) is a general term
      that refers to a toolset for fault detection and isolation, and for
      performance measurement. Over the years various OAM tools have been
      defined for various layers in the protocol stack.
      
      This document summarizes some of the data plane OAM tools defined in
      the IETF in the context of IP unicast, MPLS, pseudowires, MPLS for
      the transport profile (MPLS-TP), and TRILL.
      
      The target audience of this document includes network equipment
      vendors, network operators and standard development organizations,
      and can be used as an index to some of the main data plane OAM tools
      defined in the IETF.

  "CGN Deployment with BGP/MPLS IP VPNs", Victor Kuarsingh, John
  Cianfarani, 2013-06-27, <draft-ietf-opsawg-lsn-deployment-03.txt>

      This document specifies a framework to integrate a Network Address
      Translation layer into an operator's network to function as a Carrier
      Grade NAT (also known as CGN or Large Scale NAT).  The CGN
      infrastructure will often form a NAT444 environment as the subscriber
      home network will likely also maintain a subscriber side NAT
      function.  Exhaustion of the IPv4 address pool is a major driver
      compelling some operators to implement CGN.  Although operators may
      wish to deploy IPv6 to strategically overcome IPv4 exhaustion, near
      term needs may not be satisfied with an IPv6 deployment alone.  This
      document provides a practical integration model which allows the CGN
      platform to be integrated into the network meeting the connectivity
      needs of the subscriber while being mindful of not disrupting
      existing services and meeting the technical challenges that CGN
      brings.  The model included in this document utilizes BGP/MPLS IP
      VPNs which allow for virtual routing separation helping ease the CGNs
      impact on the network.  This document does not intend to defend the
      merits of CGN.

  "Ethernet in the First Mile Copper (EFMCu) Interfaces MIB", Edward
  Beili, 2013-06-25, <draft-ietf-opsawg-rfc5066bis-03.txt>

      This document updates RFC 5066.  It amends that specification by
      informing the internet community about the transition of the EFM-CU-
      MIB module from the IETF Ethernet Interfaces and Hub MIB Working
      Group to the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE)
      802.3 working group.

  "Mechanisms for Optimal LAG/ECMP Component Link Utilization in
  Networks", ramki, Lucy Yong, Anoop Ghanwani, So Ning, Sanjay Khanna,
  Bhumip Khasnabish, 2013-08-23,
  <draft-ietf-opsawg-large-flow-load-balancing-05.txt>

      Demands on networking infrastructure are growing exponentially; the
      drivers are bandwidth hungry rich media applications, inter-data
      center communications, etc. In this context, it is important to
      optimally use the bandwidth in wired networks that extensively use
      LAG/ECMP techniques for bandwidth scaling. This draft explores some
      of the mechanisms useful for achieving this.

  "IEEE 802.11 MAC Profile for CAPWAP", Chunju Shao, Hui Deng, Rajesh
  Pazhyannur, Farooq Bari, Rong Zhang, Satoru Matsushima, 2013-10-11,
  <draft-ietf-opsawg-capwap-hybridmac-01.txt>

      The CAPWAP protocol defines two modes of operation for IEEE 802.11
      WTPs: Split and Local MAC (medium access control), as described in
      [RFC5415],[RFC5416].  Specifically, [RFC5416] describes in detail the
      division of labor between WTP and AC in the Split and Local MAC
      modes.  Unfortunately, there are many functions that have not yet
      been clearly defined whether they belong to the WTP or the AC.  For
      example IEEE 802.11 encryption is specified as located in either in
      the AC or the WTP with no clear way to negotiate where it should be
      located.  This lack of specification leads to interoperability
      between AC and WTP when AC and WTP come from different vendors.  To
      solve this problem, this specification defines the concept of IEEE
      802.11 MAC profile where each profile refers to a table containing an
      unambigous division of labor between WTP and AC.  The profile is used
      as follows: the WTP informs the AC of the supported profiles and the
      AC selects the profile when it configures the WTP.

  "CAPWAP Extension for 802.11n and Power/channel Reconfiguration", Yifan
  Chen, Dapeng Liu, Hui Deng, Lei Zhu, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-opsawg-capwap-extension-01.txt>

      CAPWAP binding for 802.11 is specified by RFC5416 and it was based on
      IEEE 802-11.2007 standard.  After RFC5416 was published in 2009,
      there was several new amendment of 802.11 has been published.
      802.11n is one of those amendment and it has been widely used in real
      deployment.  This document extends the CAPWAP binding for 802.11 to
      support 802.11n and also defines a power and channel auto
      configuration extension.

Operational Security Capabilities for IP Network Infrastructure (opsec)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

  "Recommendations for filtering ICMP messages", Fernando Gont, Guillermo
  Gont, Carlos Pignataro, 2013-07-03,
  <draft-ietf-opsec-icmp-filtering-04.txt>

      This document document provides advice on the filtering of ICMPv4 and
      ICMPv6 messages.  Additionaly, it discusses the operational and
      interoperability implications of such filtering.

  "Recommendations on filtering of IPv4 packets containing IPv4 options.",
  Fernando Gont, R. Atkinson, Carlos Pignataro, 2013-09-16,
  <draft-ietf-opsec-ip-options-filtering-05.txt>

      This document provides advice on the filtering of IPv4 packets based
      on the IPv4 options they contain.  Additionally, it discusses the
      operational and interoperability implications of dropping packets
      based on the IP options they contain.

  "Using Only Link-Local Addressing Inside an IPv6 Network", Michael
  Behringer, Eric Vyncke, 2013-10-19, <draft-ietf-opsec-lla-only-04.txt>

      In an IPv6 network it is possible to use only link-local addresses on
      infrastructure links between routers.  This document discusses the
      advantages and disadvantages of this approach to help the decision
      process for a given network.

  "Security Implications of IPv6 on IPv4 Networks", Fernando Gont, Will
  Liu, 2013-07-05,
  <draft-ietf-opsec-ipv6-implications-on-ipv4-nets-05.txt>

      This document discusses the security implications of native IPv6
      support and IPv6 transition/co-existence technologies on "IPv4-only"
      networks, and describes possible mitigations for the aforementioned
      issues.

  "Operational Security Considerations for IPv6 Networks", KK
  Chittimaneni, Merike Kaeo, Eric Vyncke, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-opsec-v6-04.txt>

      Knowledge and experience on how to operate IPv4 securely is
      available: whether it is the Internet or an enterprise internal
      network.  However, IPv6 presents some new security challenges.  RFC
      4942 describes the security issues in the protocol but network
      managers also need a more practical, operations-minded best common
      practices.
      
      This document analyzes the operational security issues in all places
      of a network (service providers, enterprises and residential users)
      and proposes technical and procedural mitigations techniques.

  "DHCPv6-Shield: Protecting Against Rogue DHCPv6 Servers", Fernando Gont,
  Will Liu, Gunter Van de Velde, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-opsec-dhcpv6-shield-01.txt>

      This document specifies a mechanism for protecting hosts connected to
      a broadcast network against rogue DHCPv6 servers.  The aforementioned
      mechanism is based on DHCPv6 packet-filtering at the layer-2 device
      at which the packets are received.  The aforementioned mechanism has
      been widely deployed in IPv4 networks ('DHCP snooping'), and hence it
      is desirable that similar functionality be provided for IPv6
      networks.

  "Virtual Private Network (VPN) traffic leakages in dual-stack hosts/
  networks", Fernando Gont, 2013-08-22,
  <draft-ietf-opsec-vpn-leakages-02.txt>

      The subtle way in which the IPv6 and IPv4 protocols co-exist in
      typical networks, together with the lack of proper IPv6 support in
      popular Virtual Private Network (VPN) products, may inadvertently
      result in VPN traffic leaks.  That is, traffic meant to be
      transferred over a VPN connection may leak out of such connection and
      be transferred in the clear from the local network to the final
      destination.  This document discusses some scenarios in which such
      VPN leakages may occur, either as a side effect of enabling IPv6 on a
      local network, or as a result of a deliberate attack from a local
      attacker.  Additionally, it discusses possible mitigations for the
      aforementioned issue.

  "Network Reconnaissance in IPv6 Networks", Fernando Gont, Tim Chown,
  2013-07-15, <draft-ietf-opsec-ipv6-host-scanning-02.txt>

      IPv6 offers a much larger address space than that of its IPv4
      counterpart.  The standard /64 IPv6 subnets can (in theory)
      accommodate approximately 1.844 * 10^19 hosts, thus resulting in a
      much lower host density (#hosts/#addresses) than is typical in IPv4
      networks, where a site typically has 65,000 or less unique addresses.
      As a result, it is widely assumed that it would take a tremendous
      effort to perform address scanning attacks against IPv6 networks, and
      therefore classic IPv6 address scanning attacks have been considered
      unfeasible.  This document updates RFC 5157 by providing further
      analysis on how traditional address scanning techniques apply to IPv6
      networks, and exploring some additional techniques that can be
      employed for IPv6 network reconnaissance.  In doing so, this document
      formally obsoletes RFC 5157.

  "BGP operations and security", Jerome Durand, Ivan Pepelnjak, Gert
  Doering, 2013-07-14, <draft-ietf-opsec-bgp-security-01.txt>

      BGP (Border Gateway Protocol) is the protocol almost exclusively used
      in the Internet to exchange routing information between network
      domains.  Due to this central nature, it's important to understand
      the security measures that can and should be deployed to prevent
      accidental or intentional routing disturbances.
      
      This document describes measures to protect the BGP sessions itself
      (like TTL, MD5, control plane filtering) and to better control the
      flow of routing information, using prefix filtering and
      automatization of prefix filters, max-prefix filtering, AS path
      filtering, route flap dampening and BGP community scrubbing.

  "Security Assessment of Neighbor Discovery (ND) for IPv6", Fernando
  Gont, Ron Bonica, Will Liu, 2013-10-22,
  <draft-ietf-opsec-ipv6-nd-security-00.txt>

      Neighbor Discovery is one of the core protocols of the IPv6 suite,
      and provides in IPv6 similar functions to those provided in the IPv4
      protocol suite by the Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) and the
      Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP).  Its increased flexibility
      implies a somewhat increased complexity, which has resulted in a
      number of bugs and vulnerabilities found in popular implementations.
      This document provides guidance in the implementation of Neighbor
      Discovery, and documents issues that have affected popular
      implementations, in the hopes that the same issues do not repeat in
      other implementations.

Open Shortest Path First IGP (ospf)
-----------------------------------

  "Security Extension for OSPFv2 when using Manual Key Management", Manav
  Bhatia, Sam Hartman, Dacheng Zhang, Acee Lindem, 2013-05-27,
  <draft-ietf-ospf-security-extension-manual-keying-05.txt>

      The current OSPFv2 cryptographic authentication mechanism as defined
      in the OSPF standards is vulnerable to both inter-session and intra-
      session replay attacks when its uses manual keying.  Additionally,
      the existing cryptographic authentication schemes do not cover the IP
      header.  This omission can be exploited to carry out various types of
      attacks.
      
      This draft proposes changes to the authentication sequence number
      mechanism that will protect OSPFv2 from both inter-session and intra-
      session replay attacks when its using manual keys for securing its
      protocol packets.  Additionally, we also describe some changes in the
      cryptographic hash computation so that we eliminate most attacks that
      result because OSPFv2 does not protect the IP header.

  "OSPF Traffic Engineering (TE) Metric Extensions", Spencer Giacalone,
  David Ward, John Drake, Alia Atlas, Stefano Previdi, 2013-06-03,
  <draft-ietf-ospf-te-metric-extensions-04.txt,.pdf>

      In certain networks, such as, but not limited to, financial
      information networks (e.g. stock market data providers), network
      performance criteria (e.g. latency) are becoming as critical to data
      path selection as other metrics.
      
      This document describes extensions to OSPF TE [RFC3630] such that
      network performance information can be distributed and collected in a
      scalable fashion. The information distributed using OSPF TE Metric
      Extensions can then be used to make path selection decisions based on
      network performance.
      
      Note that this document only covers the mechanisms with which network
      performance information is distributed. The mechanisms for measuring
      network performance or acting on that information, once distributed,
      are outside the scope of this document.

  "Use of the OSPF-MANET Interface in Single-Hop Broadcast Networks",
  Alvaro Retana, Stan Ratliff, 2013-05-13,
  <draft-ietf-ospf-manet-single-hop-or-02.txt>

      This document describes the use of the OSPF-MANET interface in
      single-hop broadcast networks.  It includes a mechanism to
      dynamically determine the presence of such a network and specific
      operational considerations due to its nature.
      
      This document updates [RFC5820].

  "OSPFv3 Auto-Configuration", Acee Lindem, Jari Arkko, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-ietf-ospf-ospfv3-autoconfig-05.txt>

      OSPFv3 is a candidate for deployments in environments where auto-
      configuration is a requirement.  One such environment is the IPv6
      home network where users expect to simply plug in a router and have
      it automatically use OSPFv3 for intra-domain routing.  This document
      describes the necessary mechanisms for OSPFv3 to be self-configuring.

  "Supporting Authentication Trailer for OSPFv3", Manav Bhatia, Vishwas
  Manral, Acee Lindem, 2013-10-08, <draft-ietf-ospf-rfc6506bis-01.txt>

      Currently, OSPF for IPv6 (OSPFv3) uses IPsec as the only mechanism
      for authenticating protocol packets.  This behavior is different from
      authentication mechanisms present in other routing protocols (OSPFv2,
      Intermediate System to Intermediate System (IS-IS), RIP, and Routing
      Information Protocol Next Generation (RIPng)).  In some environments,
      it has been found that IPsec is difficult to configure and maintain
      and thus cannot be used.  This document defines an alternative
      mechanism to authenticate OSPFv3 protocol packets so that OSPFv3 does
      not only depend upon IPsec for authentication.  This document
      obsoletes RFC 6506.

  "OSPFv3 LSA Extendibility", Acee Lindem, Sina Mirtorabi, Abhay Roy, Fred
  Baker, 2013-10-15, <draft-ietf-ospf-ospfv3-lsa-extend-00.txt>

      OSPFv3 requires functional extension beyond what can readily be done
      with the fixed-format Link State Advertisement (LSA) as described in
      RFC 5340.  Without LSA extension, attributes associated with OSPFv3
      links and advertised IPv6 prefixes must be advertised in separate
      LSAs and correlated to the fixed-format LSA.  This document extends
      the LSA format by allowing the optional inclusion of Type-Length-
      Value (TLV) tuples in the LSAs.  Backward compatibility mechanisms
      are also described.

Peer-to-Peer Session Initiation Protocol (p2psip)
-------------------------------------------------

  "Concepts and Terminology for Peer to Peer SIP", David Bryan, Philip
  Matthews, Eunsoo Shim, Dean Willis, Spencer Dawkins, 2013-07-12,
  <draft-ietf-p2psip-concepts-05.txt>

      This document defines concepts and terminology for the use of the
      Session Initiation Protocol in a peer-to-peer environment where the
      traditional proxy-registrar and message routing functions are
      replaced by a distributed mechanism.  These mechanisms may be
      implemented using a distributed hash table or other distributed data
      mechanism with similar external properties.  This document includes a
      high-level view of the functional relationships between the network
      elements defined herein, a conceptual model of operations, and an
      outline of the related problems addressed by the P2PSIP working group
      and the RELOAD protocol ([I-D.ietf-p2psip-base],
      [I-D.ietf-p2psip-sip]) defined by the working group.

  "A SIP Usage for RELOAD", Cullen Jennings, Bruce Lowekamp, Eric
  Rescorla, Salman Baset, Henning Schulzrinne, Thomas Schmidt, 2013-07-29,
  <draft-ietf-p2psip-sip-11.txt>

      This document defines a SIP Usage for REsource LOcation And Discovery
      (RELOAD).  The SIP Usage provides the functionality of a SIP proxy or
      registrar in a fully-distributed system and includes a lookup service
      for Address of Records (AORs) stored in the overlay.  It also defines
      Globally Routable User Agent Uris (GRUUs) that allow the
      registrations to map an AOR to a specific node reachable through the
      overlay.  After such initial contact of a peer, the AppAttach method
      is used to establish a direct connection between nodes through which
      SIP messages are exchanged.

  "REsource LOcation And Discovery (RELOAD) Base Protocol", Cullen
  Jennings, Bruce Lowekamp, Eric Rescorla, Salman Baset, Henning
  Schulzrinne, 2013-02-24, <draft-ietf-p2psip-base-26.txt>

      This specification defines REsource LOcation And Discovery (RELOAD),
      a peer-to-peer (P2P) signaling protocol for use on the Internet.  A
      P2P signaling protocol provides its clients with an abstract storage
      and messaging service between a set of cooperating peers that form
      the overlay network.  RELOAD is designed to support a P2P Session
      Initiation Protocol (P2PSIP) network, but can be utilized by other
      applications with similar requirements by defining new usages that
      specify the kinds of data that needs to be stored for a particular
      application.  RELOAD defines a security model based on a certificate
      enrollment service that provides unique identities.  NAT traversal is
      a fundamental service of the protocol.  RELOAD also allows access
      from "client" nodes that do not need to route traffic or store data
      for others.

  "P2P Overlay Diagnostics", Haibin Song, XingFeng Jiang, Roni Even, David
  Bryan, 2013-08-16, <draft-ietf-p2psip-diagnostics-13.txt>

      This document describes mechanisms for P2P overlay diagnostics.  It
      defines extensions to the RELOAD P2PSIP base protocol to collect
      diagnostic information, and details the protocol specifications for
      these extensions.  Useful diagnostic information for connection and
      node status monitoring is also defined.  The document also describes
      the usage scenarios and provides examples of how these methods are
      used to perform diagnostics in P2PSIP overlay networks.

  "Self-tuning Distributed Hash Table (DHT) for REsource LOcation And
  Discovery (RELOAD)", Jouni Maenpaa, Gonzalo Camarillo, 2013-08-09,
  <draft-ietf-p2psip-self-tuning-09.txt>

      REsource LOcation And Discovery (RELOAD) is a peer-to-peer (P2P)
      signaling protocol that provides an overlay network service.  Peers
      in a RELOAD overlay network collectively run an overlay algorithm to
      organize the overlay, and to store and retrieve data.  This document
      describes how the default topology plugin of RELOAD can be extended
      to support self-tuning, that is, to adapt to changing operating
      conditions such as churn and network size.

  "Service Discovery Usage for REsource LOcation And Discovery (RELOAD)",
  Jouni Maenpaa, Gonzalo Camarillo, 2013-08-05,
  <draft-ietf-p2psip-service-discovery-09.txt>

      REsource LOcation and Discovery (RELOAD) does not define a generic
      service discovery mechanism as a part of the base protocol.  This
      document defines how the Recursive Distributed Rendezvous (ReDiR)
      service discovery mechanism used in OpenDHT can be applied to RELOAD
      overlays to provide a generic service discovery mechanism.

  "An Extension to REsource LOcation And Discovery (RELOAD) Protocol to
  Support Relay Peer Routing", Ning Zong, XingFeng Jiang, Roni Even,
  Yunfei Zhang, 2013-10-20, <draft-ietf-p2psip-rpr-11.txt>

      This document proposes an optional extension to REsource LOcation And
      Discovery (RELOAD) protocol to support relay peer routing mode.
      RELOAD recommends symmetric recursive routing for routing messages.
      The new optional extension provides a shorter route for responses
      reducing the overhead on intermediate peers and describes the
      potential use cases where this extension can be used.

  "An Extension to REsource LOcation And Discovery (RELOAD) Protocol to
  Support Direct Response Routing", Ning Zong, XingFeng Jiang, Roni Even,
  Yunfei Zhang, 2013-10-20, <draft-ietf-p2psip-drr-11.txt>

      This document proposes an optional extension to REsource LOcation And
      Discovery (RELOAD) protocol to support direct response routing mode.
      RELOAD recommends symmetric recursive routing for routing messages.
      The new optional extension provides a shorter route for responses
      reducing the overhead on intermediate peers and describes the
      potential cases where this extension can be used.

  "A Usage for Shared Resources in RELOAD (ShaRe)", Alexander Knauf,
  Thomas Schmidt, Gabriel Hege, Matthias Waehlisch, 2013-08-27,
  <draft-ietf-p2psip-share-02.txt>

      This document defines a RELOAD Usage for managing shared write access
      to RELOAD Resources.  Shared Resources in RELOAD (ShaRe) form a basic
      primitive for enabling various coordination and notification schemes
      among distributed peers.  Access in ShaRe is controlled by a
      hierarchical trust delegation scheme maintained within an access
      list.  A new USER-CHAIN-ACL access policy allows authorized peers to
      write a Shared Resource without owning its corresponding certificate.
      This specification also adds mechanisms to store Resources with a
      variable name which is useful whenever peer-independent rendezvous
      processes are required.

  "A RELOAD Usage for Distributed Conference Control (DisCo)", Alexander
  Knauf, Thomas Schmidt, Gabriel Hege, Matthias Waehlisch, 2013-07-31,
  <draft-ietf-p2psip-disco-02.txt>

      This document defines a RELOAD Usage for Distributed Conference
      Control (DisCo) with SIP.  DisCo preserves conference addressing
      through a single SIP URI by splitting its semantic of identifier and
      locator using a new Kind data structure.  Conference members are
      enabled to select conference controllers based on proximity awareness
      and to recover from failures of individual resource instances.  DisCo
      proposes call delegation to balance the load at focus peers.

Protocol to Access WS database (paws)
-------------------------------------

  "Protocol to Access Spectrum Database", Vincent Chen, Subir Das, Lei
  Zhu, John Malyar, Pete McCann, 2013-06-19,
  <draft-ietf-paws-protocol-06.txt>

      Portions of the radio spectrum that are allocated to licensees are
      available for non-interfering use.  This available spectrum is called
      "White Space."  Allowing secondary users access to available spectrum
      "unlocks" existing spectrum to maximize its utilization and to
      provide opportunities for innovation, resulting in greater overall
      spectrum utilization.
      
      One approach to manage spectrum sharing uses databases to report
      spectrum availability to devices.  To achieve interoperability among
      multiple devices and databases, a standardized protocol must be
      defined and implemented.  This document defines such a protocol, the
      "Protocol to Access White Space database" (PAWS).

Audio/Video Transport Payloads (payload)
----------------------------------------

  "How to Write an RTP Payload Format", Magnus Westerlund, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-payload-rtp-howto-09.txt>

      This document contains information on how to best write an RTP
      payload format specification.  It provides reading tips, design
      practices, and practical tips on how to produce an RTP payload format
      specification quickly and with good results.  A template is also
      included with instructions.

  "RTP Payload Format for VP8 Video", Patrik Westin, Henrik Lundin,
  Michael Glover, Justin Uberti, Frank Galligan, 2013-10-03,
  <draft-ietf-payload-vp8-10.txt>

      This memo describes an RTP payload format for the VP8 video codec.
      The payload format has wide applicability, as it supports
      applications from low bit-rate peer-to-peer usage, to high bit-rate
      video conferences.

  "RTP Payload Format for Bluetooth's SBC Audio Codec", Christian Hoene,
  Frans Bont, 2013-08-26, <draft-ietf-payload-rtp-sbc-06.txt>

      This document specifies a Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) payload
      format to be used for the low complexity subband codec (SBC), which
      is the mandatory audio codec of the Advanced Audio Distribution
      Profile (A2DP) Specification written by the Bluetooth(r) Special
      Interest Group (SIG). The payload format is designed to be able to
      interoperate with existing Bluetooth A2DP devices, to provide high
      streaming audio quality, interactive audio transmission over the
      internet, and ultra-low delay coding for jam sessions on the
      internet. This document contains also a media type registration
      which specifies the use of the RTP payload format.

  "RTP Payload Format for Opus Speech and Audio Codec", Julian Spittka,
  Koen Vos, Jean-Marc Valin, 2013-08-02,
  <draft-ietf-payload-rtp-opus-01.txt>

      This document defines the Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) payload
      format for packetization of Opus encoded speech and audio data that
      is essential to integrate the codec in the most compatible way.
      Further, media type registrations are described for the RTP payload
      format.

  "RTP Payload Format for Standard apt-X and Enhanced apt-X Codecs", John
  Lindsay, Hartmut Foerster, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-payload-rtp-aptx-03.txt,.pdf>

      This document specifies a scheme for packetizing Standard apt-X, or
      Enhanced apt-X, encoded audio data into Real-time Transport Protocol
      (RTP) packets.  The document describes a payload format that permits
      transmission of multiple related audio channels in a single RTP
      payload, and a means of establishing Standard apt-X and Enhanced
      apt-X connections through the Session Description Protocol (SDP).

  "RTP Payload Format for G.711.0", Michael Ramalho, Paul Jones, Noboru
  Harada, Muthu Perumal, Miao Lei, 2013-06-21,
  <draft-ietf-payload-g7110-00.txt>

      This document specifies the Real-Time Transport Protocol (RTP)
      payload format for ITU-T Recommendation G.711.0.  ITU-T Rec. G.711.0
      defines a lossless and stateless compression for G.711 packet
      payloads typically used in IP networks.  This document also defines a
      storage mode format for G.711.0 and a media type registration for the
      G.711.0 RTP payload format.

  "RTP Payload Format for High Efficiency Video Coding", Ye-Kui Wang, Yago
  Sanchez, Thomas Schierl, Stephan Wenger, Miska Hannuksela, 2013-09-06,
  <draft-ietf-payload-rtp-h265-01.txt>

      This memo describes an RTP payload format for the video coding
      standard  ITU-T  Recommendation  H.265  and  ISO/IEC  International
      Standard 23008-2, both also known as High Efficiency Video Coding
      (HEVC) [HEVC], developed by the Joint Collaborative Team on Video
      Coding (JCT-VC).  The RTP payload format allows for packetization of
      one or more Network Abstraction Layer (NAL) units in each RTP packet
      payload, as well as fragmentation of a NAL unit into multiple RTP
      packets.  Furthermore, it supports transmission of an HEVC stream
      over a single as well as multiple RTP flows.  The payload format has
      wide applicability in videoconferencing, Internet video streaming,
      and high bit-rate entertainment-quality video, among others.

Path Computation Element (pce)
------------------------------

  "PCE communication protocol (PCEP) Management Information Base", Kiran
  Koushik, Emile Stephan, Quintin Zhao, Daniel King, Jonathan Hardwick,
  2013-07-15, <draft-ietf-pce-pcep-mib-05.txt>

      This memo defines an experimental portion of the Management
      Information Base for use with network management protocols in the
      Internet community.  In particular, it describes managed objects for
      modeling of Path Computation Element communication Protocol (PCEP)
      for communications between a Path Computation Client (PCC) and a Path
      Computation Element (PCE), or between two PCEs.

  "Conveying Vendor-Specific Constraints in the Path Computation Element
  communication Protocol", Fatai Zhang, Adrian Farrel, 2013-10-17,
  <draft-ietf-pce-vendor-constraints-11.txt>

      The Path Computation Element communication Protocol (PCEP) is used to
      convey path computation requests and responses between Path
      Computation Clients (PCCs) and Path Computation Elements (PCEs), and
      also between cooperating PCEs.  In PCEP the path computation requests
      carry details of the constraints and objective functions that the PCC
      wishes the PCE to apply in its computation.
      
      This document defines a facility to carry vendor-specific information
      in PCEP using a dedicated object and a new Type-Length-Variable that
      can be carried in any existing PCEP object.

  "PCEP Requirements for WSON Routing and Wavelength Assignment", Young
  Lee, Greg Bernstein, Jonas Martensson, Tomonori Takeda, Takehiro
  Tsuritani, Oscar de Dios, 2013-06-27,
  <draft-ietf-pce-wson-routing-wavelength-09.txt>

      This memo provides application-specific requirements for the Path
      Computation Element communication Protocol (PCEP) for the support of
      Wavelength Switched Optical Networks (WSON). Lightpath provisioning
      in WSONs requires a routing and wavelength assignment (RWA) process.
      From a path computation perspective, wavelength assignment is the
      process of determining which wavelength can be used on each hop of a
      path and forms an additional routing constraint to optical light
      path computation. Requirements for Optical impairments will be
      addressed in a separate document.

  "PCEP extensions for GMPLS", Cyril Margaria, Oscar de Dios, Fatai Zhang,
  2013-07-15, <draft-ietf-pce-gmpls-pcep-extensions-08.txt>

      This memo provides extensions for the Path Computation Element
      communication Protocol (PCEP) for the support of GMPLS control plane.

  "PCE-based Computation Procedure To Compute Shortest Constrained P2MP
  Inter-domain Traffic Engineering Label Switched Paths", Quintin Zhao,
  Dhruv Dhody, Zafar Ali, Daniel King, Ramon Casellas, 2013-07-14,
  <draft-ietf-pce-pcep-inter-domain-p2mp-procedures-05.txt>

      The ability to compute paths for constrained point-to-multipoint
      (P2MP) Traffic Engineering Label Switched Paths (TE LSPs) across
      multiple domains has been identified as a key requirement for the
      deployment of P2MP services in MPLS and GMPLS-controlled networks.
      The Path Computation Element (PCE) has been recognized as an
      appropriate technology for the determination of inter-domain paths of
      P2MP TE LSPs.
      
      This document describes an experiment to provide procedures and
      extensions to the PCE communication Protocol (PCEP) for the
      computation of inter-domain paths for P2MP TE LSPs.

  "PCEP Extensions for Stateful PCE", Edward Crabbe, Jan Medved, Ina
  Minei, Robert Varga, 2013-10-08, <draft-ietf-pce-stateful-pce-07.txt>

      The Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) provides
      mechanisms for Path Computation Elements (PCEs) to perform path
      computations in response to Path Computation Clients (PCCs) requests.
      
      Although PCEP explicitly makes no assumptions regarding the
      information available to the PCE, it also makes no provisions for
      synchronization or PCE control of timing and sequence of path
      computations within and across PCEP sessions.  This document
      describes a set of extensions to PCEP to enable stateful control of
      MPLS-TE and GMPLS LSPs via PCEP.

  "Standard Representation Of Domain-Sequence", Dhruv Dhody, Udayasree
  Palle, Ramon Casellas, 2013-07-09,
  <draft-ietf-pce-pcep-domain-sequence-03.txt>

      The ability to compute shortest constrained Traffic Engineering Label
      Switched Paths (TE LSPs) in Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) and
      Generalized MPLS (GMPLS) networks across multiple domains has been
      identified as a key requirement.  In this context, a domain is a
      collection of network elements within a common sphere of address
      management or path computational responsibility such as an Interior
      Gateway Protocol (IGP) area or an Autonomous Systems (AS).  This
      document specifies a standard representation and encoding of a
      Domain-Sequence, which is defined as an ordered sequence of domains
      traversed to reach the destination domain to be used by Path
      Computation Elements (PCEs) to compute inter-domain shortest
      constrained paths across a predetermined sequence of domains .  This
      document also defines new subobjects to be used to encode domain
      identifiers.

  "Extensions to the Path Computation Element Communication Protocol
  (PCEP) to compute service aware Label Switched Path (LSP).", Dhruv
  Dhody, Vishwas Manral, Zafar Ali, George Swallow, Kenji Kumaki,
  2013-07-09, <draft-ietf-pce-pcep-service-aware-01.txt>

      In certain networks like financial information network (stock/
      commodity trading) and enterprises using cloud based applications,
      Latency (delay), Latency-Variation (jitter) and Packet Loss is
      becoming a key requirement for path computation along with other
      constraints and metrics.  Latency, Latency-Variation and Packet Loss
      is associated with the Service Level Agreement (SLA) between
      customers and service providers.
      
      [OSPF-TE-EXPRESS] and [ISIS-TE-EXPRESS] describes mechanisms with
      which network performance information is distributed via OSPF and
      ISIS respectively.  The Path Computation Element Communication
      Protocol (PCEP) provides mechanisms for Path Computation Elements
      (PCEs) to perform path computations in response to Path Computation
      Clients (PCCs) requests.  This document describes the extension to
      PCEP to carry Latency, Latency-Variation and Loss as constraints for
      end to end path computation.

  "PCEP Extension for WSON Routing and Wavelength Assignment", Young Lee,
  Ramon Casellas, 2013-07-12, <draft-ietf-pce-wson-rwa-ext-01.txt>

      This document provides the Path Computation Element communication
      Protocol (PCEP) extensions for the support of Routing and Wavelength
      Assignment (RWA) in Wavelength Switched Optical Networks (WSON).
      Lightpath provisioning in WSONs requires a routing and wavelength
      assignment (RWA) process.  From a path computation perspective,
      wavelength assignment is the process of determining which wavelength
      can be used on each hop of a path and forms an additional routing
      constraint to optical light path computation.

  "Unanswered Questions in the Path Computation Element Architecture",
  Adrian Farrel, Daniel King, 2013-10-02,
  <draft-ietf-pce-questions-01.txt>

      The Path Computation Element (PCE) architecture is set out in RFC
      4655. The architecture is extended for multi-layer networking with
      the introduction of the Virtual Network Topology Manager in RFC
      5623, and generalized to Hierarchical PCE in RFC 6805.
      
      These three architectural views of PCE deliberately leave some key
      questions unanswered especially with respect to the interactions
      between architectural components.  This document draws out those
      questions and discusses them in an architectural context with
      reference to other architectural components, existing protocols, and
      recent IETF work efforts.
      
      This document does not update the architecture documents and does not
      define how protocols or components must be used.  It does, however,
      suggest how the architectural components might be combined to provide
      advanced PCE function.

  "Applicability of Stateful Path Computation Element (PCE)", Xian Zhang,
  Ina Minei, 2013-09-24, <draft-ietf-pce-stateful-pce-app-01.txt>

      A stateful Path Computation Element (PCE) maintains information about
      Label Switched Path (LSP) characteristics and resource usage within a
      network in order to provide traffic engineering calculations for its
      associated Path Computation Clients (PCCs).  This document describes
      general considerations for a stateful PCE deployment and examines its
      applicability and benefits, as well as its challenges and limitations
      through a number of use cases.  Path Computation Element Protocol
      (PCEP) extensions required for stateful PCE usage are covered in
      separate documents.

  "Extensions to Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP)
  for Hierarchical Path Computation Elements (PCE)", Fatai Zhang, Quintin
  Zhao, Oscar de Dios, Ramon Casellas, Daniel King, 2013-08-18,
  <draft-ietf-pce-hierarchy-extensions-00.txt>

      The Hierarchical Path Computation Element (H-PCE) architecture,
      defined in the companion framework document [RFC6805], provides a
      mechanism to allow the optimum sequence of domains to be selected,
      and the optimum end-to-end path to be derived through the use of a
      hierarchical relationship between domains.
      
      This document defines the Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP)
      extensions for the purpose of implementing Hierarchical PCE
      procedures which are described in the aforementioned document. These
      extensions are experimental and published for examination,
      discussion, implementation, and evaluation.

Port Control Protocol (pcp)
---------------------------

  "DHCP Options for the Port Control Protocol (PCP)", Mohamed Boucadair,
  Reinaldo Penno, Dan Wing, 2013-08-06, <draft-ietf-pcp-dhcp-08.txt>

      This document specifies DHCP (IPv4 and IPv6) options to configure
      hosts with Port Control Protocol (PCP) Server IP addresses.  The use
      of DHCPv4 or DHCPv6 depends on the PCP deployment scenario.

  "Port Control Protocol (PCP) Proxy Function", Mohamed Boucadair,
  Reinaldo Penno, Dan Wing, 2013-07-28, <draft-ietf-pcp-proxy-04.txt>

      This document specifies a new PCP functional element denoted as a PCP
      Proxy.  The PCP Proxy relays PCP requests received from PCP clients
      to upstream PCP server(s).  A typical deployment usage of this
      function is to help establish successful PCP communications for PCP
      clients that can not be configured with the address of a PCP server
      located more than one hop away.

  "Port Control Protocol (PCP) Authentication Mechanism", Margaret
  Wasserman, Sam Hartman, Dacheng Zhang, 2013-10-01,
  <draft-ietf-pcp-authentication-02.txt>

      An IPv4 or IPv6 host can use the Port Control Protocol (PCP) to
      flexibly manage the IP address and port mapping information on
      Network Address Translators (NATs) or firewalls, to facilitate
      communications with remote hosts.  However, the un-controlled
      generation or deletion of IP address mappings on such network devices
      may cause security risks and should be avoided.  In some cases the
      client may need to prove that it is authorized to modify, create or
      delete PCP mappings.  This document proposes an in-band
      authentication mechanism for PCP that can be used in those cases.
      The Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) is used to perform
      authentication between PCP devices.

  "PCP Server Selection", Mohamed Boucadair, Reinaldo Penno, Dan Wing,
  Prashanth Patil, Tirumaleswar Reddy, 2013-05-22,
  <draft-ietf-pcp-server-selection-01.txt>

      This document specifies the behavior to be followed by the PCP client
      to contact its PCP server(s) when one or several PCP server names are
      configured.  Multiple names may be configured to a PCP client in some
      deployment contexts such as multi-homing.
      
      This document updates RFC6887.

  "Learning NAT64 PREFIX64s using PCP", Mohamed Boucadair, 2013-07-30,
  <draft-ietf-pcp-nat64-prefix64-04.txt>

      This document defines a new PCP extension to learn the IPv6
      prefix(es) used by a PCP-controlled NAT64 device to build
      IPv4-converted IPv6 addresses.  This extension is needed for
      successful communications when IPv4 addresses are used in referrals.

  "PCP Description Option", Mohamed Boucadair, Reinaldo Penno, Dan Wing,
  2013-07-30, <draft-ietf-pcp-description-option-02.txt>

      This document extends Port Control Protocol (PCP) with the ability to
      associate a description with a PCP-instantiated mapping.  It does so
      by defining a new DESCRIPTION option.

  "Port Control Protocol (PCP) Extension for Port Set Allocation", Qiong,
  Mohamed Boucadair, Senthil Sivakumar, Cathy Zhou, Tina Tsou, Simon
  Perreault, 2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-pcp-port-set-03.txt>

      This document defines an extension to PCP allowing clients to
      manipulate sets of ports as a whole.  This is accomplished by a new
      MAP option: PORT_SET.

  "The Port Control Protocol in Dual-Stack Lite environments", Francis
  Dupont, Tina Tsou, Jacni Qin, Margaret Wasserman, Dacheng Zhang,
  2013-06-13, <draft-ietf-pcp-dslite-00.txt>

      This document specifies the so-called "plain mode" for the use of the
      Port Control Protocol (PCP) in Dual-Stack Lite (DS-Lite)
      environments.

  "Optimizing NAT and Firewall Keepalives Using Port Control Protocol
  (PCP)", Tirumaleswar Reddy, Markus Isomaki, Dan Wing, Prashanth Patil,
  2013-08-23, <draft-ietf-pcp-optimize-keepalives-00.txt>

      This document describes how Port Control Protocol is useful to reduce
      NAT and firewall keepalive messages for a variety of applications.

  "PCP Anycast Address", Sebastian Kiesel, Reinaldo Penno, Stuart
  Cheshire, 2013-10-17, <draft-ietf-pcp-anycast-00.txt>

      The Port Control Protocol (PCP) Anycast Address enables PCP clients
      to transmit signaling messages to their closest on-path NAT,
      Firewall, or other middlebox, without having to learn the IP address
      of that middlebox via some external channel.  This document
      establishes one well-known IPv4 address and one well-known IPv6
      address to be used as PCP Anycast Address.

Protocol Independent Multicast (pim)
------------------------------------

  "Protocol Independent Multicast - Sparse Mode (PIM-SM): Protocol
  Specification (Revised)", Bill Fenner, Mark Handley, Hugh Holbrook,
  Isidor Kouvelas, Rishabh Parekh, Jeffrey Zhang, Lianshu Zheng,
  2013-10-17, <draft-ietf-pim-rfc4601bis-02.txt>

      This document specifies Protocol Independent Multicast - Sparse Mode
      (PIM-SM).  PIM-SM is a multicast routing protocol that can use the
      underlying unicast routing information base or a separate multicast-
      capable routing information base.  It builds unidirectional shared
      trees rooted at a Rendezvous Point (RP) per group, and optionally
      creates shortest-path trees per source.
      
      This document addresses errata filed against RFC 4601, and removes
      the optional (*,*,RP) feature that lacks sufficient deployment
      experience.

  "IGMP/MLD-Based Explicit Membership Tracking Function for Multicast
  Routers", Hitoshi Asaeda, 2013-10-07,
  <draft-ietf-pim-explicit-tracking-08.txt>

      This document describes the IGMP/MLD-based explicit membership
      tracking function for multicast routers and IGMP/MLD proxy devices
      supporting IGMPv3/MLDv2.  The explicit membership tracking function
      contributes to saving network resources and shortening leave latency.

  "Survey Report on PIM-SM Implementations and Deployments", Lianshu
  Zheng, Jeffrey Zhang, Rishabh Parekh, 2013-09-18,
  <draft-ietf-pim-rfc4601-update-survey-report-03.txt>

      This document provides supporting documentation to advance the
      Protocol Independent Multicast - Sparse Mode (PIM-SM) protocol from
      IETF Proposed Standard to Internet Standard.

  "Explicit RPF Vector", Javed Asghar, IJsbrand Wijnands, Sowmya
  Krishnaswamy, Apoorva Karan, Vishal Arya, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-ietf-pim-explicit-rpf-vector-03.txt>

      This document defines a new Reverse Path Forwarding (RPF) Vector
      TLV to build multicast trees via an explicit path sent in the PIM
      join.

  "IGMP/MLD Optimizations in Wireless and Mobile Networks", Hui Liu, Mike
  McBride, Hitoshi Asaeda, 2013-08-27,
  <draft-ietf-pim-igmp-mld-wireless-mobile-00.txt>

      This document proposes a variety of optimization approaches for IGMP
      and MLD in wireless and mobile networks.  It aims to provide useful
      guidelines to allow efficient multicast communication in these
      networks using IGMP or MLD protocols.

  "Hierarchical Join/Prune Attributes", Stig Venaas, Isidor Kouvelas,
  Jesus Arango, 2013-10-18, <draft-ietf-pim-hierarchicaljoinattr-01.txt>

      This document defines a hierachical method of encoding Join
      attributes, providing a more efficient encoding when the same
      attribute values need to be specified for multiple sources in a PIM
      Join/Prune message.

Peer to Peer Streaming Protocol (ppsp)
--------------------------------------

  "Survey of P2P Streaming Applications", Gu Yingjie, Ning Zong, Yunfei
  Zhang, Francesca Piccolo, Shihui Duan, 2013-07-11,
  <draft-ietf-ppsp-survey-05.txt>

      This document presents a survey of some of the most popular Peer-to-
      Peer (P2P) streaming applications on the Internet.  Main selection
      criteria have been popularity and availability of information on
      operation details at writing time.  In doing this, selected
      applications are not reviewed as a whole, but they are reviewed with
      main focus on the signaling and control protocol used to establish
      and maintain overlay connections among peers and to advertise and
      download streaming content.

  "Peer-to-Peer Streaming Peer Protocol (PPSPP)", A. Bakker, Riccardo
  Petrocco, Victor Grishchenko, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-ppsp-peer-protocol-08.txt>

      The Peer-to-Peer Streaming Peer Protocol (PPSPP) is a protocol for
      disseminating the same content to a group of interested parties in a
      streaming fashion.  PPSPP supports streaming of both pre-recorded
      (on-demand) and live audio/video content.  It is based on the peer-
      to-peer paradigm, where clients consuming the content are put on
      equal footing with the servers initially providing the content, to
      create a system where everyone can potentially provide upload
      bandwidth.  It has been designed to provide short time-till-playback
      for the end user, and to prevent disruption of the streams by
      malicious peers.  PPSPP has also been designed to be flexible and
      extensible.  It can use different mechanisms to optimize peer
      uploading, prevent freeriding, and work with different peer discovery
      schemes (centralized trackers or Distributed Hash Tables).  It
      supports multiple methods for content integrity protection and chunk
      addressing.  Designed as a generic protocol that can run on top of
      various transport protocols, it currently runs on top of UDP using
      LEDBAT for congestion control.

  "PPSP Tracker Protocol-Base Protocol (PPSP-TP/1.0)", Rui Cruz, Mario
  Nunes, Gu Yingjie, Jinwei Xia, Joao Taveira, Deng Lingli, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-ppsp-base-tracker-protocol-02.txt>

      This document specifies the base Peer-to-Peer Streaming Protocol-
      Tracker Protocol (PPSP-TP/1.0), an application-layer control
      (signaling) protocol for the exchange of meta information between
      trackers and peers.  The specification outlines the architecture of
      the protocol and its functionality, and describes message flows,
      message processing instructions, message formats, formal syntax and
      semantics.  The PPSP Tracker Protocol enables cooperating peers to
      form content streaming overlay networks to support near real-time
      Structured Media content delivery (audio, video, associated timed
      text and metadata), such as adaptive multi-rate, layered (scalable)
      and multi-view (3D) videos, in live, time-shifted and on-demand
      modes.

Preparation and Comparison of Internationalized Strings (precis)
----------------------------------------------------------------

  "PRECIS Framework: Preparation and Comparison of Internationalized
  Strings in Application Protocols", Peter Saint-Andre, Marc Blanchet,
  2013-10-18, <draft-ietf-precis-framework-11.txt>

      Application protocols using Unicode code points in protocol strings
      need to properly prepare such strings in order to perform valid
      comparison operations (e.g., for purposes of authentication or
      authorization).  This document defines a framework enabling
      application protocols to perform the preparation and comparison of
      internationalized strings (a.k.a.  "PRECIS") in a way that depends on
      the properties of Unicode code points and thus is agile with respect
      to versions of Unicode.  As a result, this framework provides a more
      sustainable approach to the handling of internationalized strings
      than the previous framework, known as Stringprep (RFC 3454).  This
      document obsoletes RFC 3454.

  "Preparation and Comparison of Nicknames", Peter Saint-Andre,
  2013-10-18, <draft-ietf-precis-nickname-07.txt>

      This document describes how to prepare and compare Unicode strings
      representing nicknames, primarily for use within textual chatrooms.
      This profile is intended to be used by messaging and text
      conferencing technologies such as the Extensible Messaging and
      Presence Protocol (XMPP), the Message Session Relay Protocol (MSRP),
      and Centralized Conferencing (XCON).

  "Mapping characters for PRECIS classes", Yoshiro Yoneya, Takahiro
  NEMOTO, 2013-10-20, <draft-ietf-precis-mappings-05.txt>

      The framework for preparation and comparison of internationalized
      strings ("PRECIS") defines several classes of strings for preparation
      and comparison.  In the framework, case mapping is defined because
      many protocols handle case-sensitive or case-insensitive string
      comparison and therefore preparation of the string is mandatory.  As
      described in the mapping for Internationalized Domain Names in
      Applications (IDNA) and the PRECIS problem statement, mappings for
      internationalized strings are not limited to case, but also width
      mapping and mapping of delimiters and other specials can be taken
      into consideration.  This document provides guidelines for authors of
      protocol profiles of the PRECIS framework and describes several
      mappings that can be applied between receiving user input and passing
      permitted code points to internationalized protocols.  The mappings
      described here are expected to be applied as Additional mapping in
      the PRECIS framework.

  "Preparation and Comparison of Internationalized Strings Representing
  Usernames and Passwords", Peter Saint-Andre, Alexey Melnikov,
  2013-10-18, <draft-ietf-precis-saslprepbis-05.txt>

      This document describes methods for handling Unicode strings
      representing usernames and passwords.  This document obsoletes RFC
      4013.

Pseudowire Emulation Edge to Edge (pwe3)
----------------------------------------

  "Dynamic Placement of Multi-Segment Pseudowires", Luca Martini, Matthew
  Bocci, Florin Balus, 2013-10-09, <draft-ietf-pwe3-dynamic-ms-pw-19.txt>

      There is a requirement for service providers to be able to extend the
      reach of pseudowires (PW) across multiple Packet Switched Network
      domains. A Multi-Segment PW is defined as a set of two or more
      contiguous PW segments that behave and function as a single point-
      to-point PW. This document describes extensions to the PW control
      protocol to dynamically place the segments of the multi-segment
      pseudowire among a set of Provider Edge (PE) routers. This document
      also updates RFC6073 as follows: it updates the length value of the
      PW Switching Point PE Sub-TLV Type 0x06 to 14.

  "Requirements and Framework for Point-to-Multipoint Pseudowires over
  MPLS PSNs", Frederic JOUNAY, Yuji Kamite, Giles Heron, Matthew Bocci,
  2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-pwe3-p2mp-pw-requirements-06.txt>

      This document presents a set of requirements and a framework for
      providing a Point-to-Multipoint Pseudowire (PW) over MPLS PSNs.  The
      requirements identified in this document are related to architecture,
      signaling and maintenance aspects of Point-to-Multipoint PW
      operation.  They are proposed as guidelines for the standardization
      of such mechanisms.  Among other potential applications, Point-to-
      Multipoint PWs can be used to optimize the support of multicast layer
      2 services (Virtual Private LAN Service and Virtual Private Multicast
      Service) as defined in the Layer 2 Virtual Private Network Working
      Group.

  "Inter-Chassis Communication Protocol for L2VPN PE Redundancy", Luca
  Martini, Samer Salam, Ali Sajassi,  satoru.matsushima@gmail.com,
  2013-10-20, <draft-ietf-pwe3-iccp-12.txt>

      This document specifies an inter-chassis communication protocol
      (ICCP) that enables Provider Edge (PE) device redundancy for Virtual
      Private Wire Service (VPWS) and Virtual Private LAN Service (VPLS)
      applications. The protocol runs within a set of two or more PEs,
      forming a redundancy group, for the purpose of synchronizing data
      amongst the systems. It accommodates multi-chassis attachment circuit
      as well as pseudowire redundancy mechanisms.

  "MPLS LSP PW status refresh reduction for Static Pseudowires", Luca
  Martini, George Swallow, Elisa Bellagamba, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-ietf-pwe3-status-reduction-02.txt>

      This document describes a method for generating an aggregated
      pseudowire status message on Multi-Protocol Label Switching (MPLS)
      network Label Switched Path (LSP).
      
      The method for transmitting the pseudowire (PW) status information is
      not new, however this protocol extension allows a Service Provider
      (SP) to reliably monitor the individual PW status while not
      overwhelming the network of multiple periodic status messages. This
      is achieved by sending a single cumulative summary status
      verification message for all the PWs grouped in the same LSP.

  "The Pseudowire (PW) & Virtual Circuit Connectivity Verification (VCCV)
  Implementation Survey Results", Andrew Malis, 2013-10-03,
  <draft-ietf-pwe3-vccv-impl-survey-results-03.txt>

      The IETF PWE3 Working Group has defined many encapsulations of
      various layer 1 and layer 2 service-specific PDUs and circuit data.
      In most of these encapsulations, use of the Pseudowire (PW) Control
      Word is required.  However, there are several encapsulations for
      which the Control Word is optional, and this optionality has been
      seen in practice to possibly introduce interoperability concerns
      between multiple implementations of those encapsulations.  This
      survey of the PW/VCCV user community was conducted to determine
      implementation trends and the possibility of always mandating the
      Control Word.

  "Pseudowire Setup and Maintenance using the Label Distribution
  Protocol", Luca Martini, Giles Heron, 2013-10-15,
  <draft-ietf-pwe3-rfc4447bis-02.txt>

      Layer 2 services (such as Frame Relay, Asynchronous Transfer Mode,
      and Ethernet) can be "emulated" over an MPLS backbone by
      encapsulating the Layer 2 Protocol Data Units (PDU) and then
      transmitting them over "pseudowires". It is also possible to use
      pseudowires to provide low-rate Time Division Multiplexed and
      Synchronous Optical NETworking circuit emulation over an MPLS-enabled
      network. This document specifies a protocol for establishing and
      maintaining the pseudowires, using extensions to the Label
      Distribution Protocol (LDP).  Procedures for encapsulating Layer 2
      PDUs are specified in a set of companion documents.

  "LDP extensions for Pseudowire Binding to LSP Tunnels", Mach Chen, Wei
  Cao, Attila Takacs, Ping Pan, 2013-06-03,
  <draft-ietf-pwe3-mpls-tp-pw-over-bidir-lsp-01.txt>

      Many transport services require that user traffic, in the forms of
      Pseudowires (PW), to be delivered on a single co-routed bidirectional
      LSP or two LSPs that share the same routes.  In addition, the user
      traffic may traverse through multiple transport networks.
      
      This document specifies an optional extension in LDP that enable the
      binding between PWs and the underlying LSPs.

  "Pseudowire Redundancy on S-PE", Jie Dong, Haibo Wang, 2013-06-21,
  <draft-ietf-pwe3-redundancy-spe-01.txt>

      This document describes Multi-Segment Pseudowire (MS-PW) protection
      scenarios in which the pseudowire redundancy is provided on the
      Switching-PE (S-PE).  Operations of the S-PEs which provide PW
      redundancy are specified in this document.  Signaling of the
      preferential forwarding status as defined in [RFC6870] is reused.
      This document does not require any change to the T-PEs of MS-PW.

  "VCCV MPLS-TP Connectivity Verification (CV) Capability Advertisement",
  Greg Mirsky, 2013-09-20, <draft-ietf-pwe3-mpls-tp-cv-adv-01.txt>

      This document specifies how use of proactive Connectivity
      Verification, Continuity Check, and Remote Defect Indication for the
      MPLS Transport Profile [RFC6428] affects operation and management
      function election for PW VCCV [RFC5085], [RFC5885].

IMAP QRESYNC Extension (qresync)
--------------------------------

  "IMAP Extensions for Conditional STORE Operation or Quick Flag Changes
  Resynchronization (CONDSTORE) and Quick Mailbox Resynchronization
  (QRESYNC)", Alexey Melnikov, Dave Cridland, 2013-10-08,
  <draft-ietf-qresync-rfc5162bis-03.txt>

      Often, multiple IMAP (RFC 3501) clients need to coordinate changes to
      a common IMAP mailbox.  Examples include different clients working on
      behalf of the same user, and multiple users accessing shared
      mailboxes.  These clients need a mechanism to synchronize state
      changes for messages within the mailbox.  They must be able to
      guarantee that only one client can change message state (e.g.,
      message flags) at any time.  An example of such an application is use
      of an IMAP mailbox as a message queue with multiple dequeueing
      clients.
      
      The Conditional Store facility provides a protected update mechanism
      for message state information that can detect and resolve conflicts
      between multiple writing mail clients.
      
      The Conditional Store facility also allows a client to quickly
      resynchronize mailbox flag changes.
      
      This document additionally defines another IMAP extension, which
      gives an IMAP client the ability to quickly resynchronize any
      previously opened mailbox as part of the SELECT command, without the
      need for server-side state or additional client round-trips.  This
      extension also introduces a new response that allows for a more
      compact representation of a list of expunged messages (and always
      includes the Unique Identifiers (UIDs) expunged).

  "IMAP Extension for Conditional STORE Operation or Quick Flag Changes
  Resynchronization", Alexey Melnikov, 2013-09-11,
  <draft-ietf-qresync-rfc4551bis-04.txt>

      Often, multiple IMAP (RFC 3501) clients need to coordinate changes to
      a common IMAP mailbox.  Examples include different clients working on
      behalf of the same user, and multiple users accessing shared
      mailboxes.  These clients need a mechanism to synchronize state
      changes for messages within the mailbox.  They must be able to
      guarantee that only one client can change message state (e.g.,
      message flags) at any time.  An example of such an application is use
      of an IMAP mailbox as a message queue with multiple dequeueing
      clients.
      
      The Conditional Store facility provides a protected update mechanism
      for message state information that can detect and resolve conflicts
      between multiple writing mail clients.
      
      The Conditional Store facility also allows a client to quickly
      resynchronize mailbox flag changes.
      
      This document defines an extension to IMAP (RFC 3501).

RADIUS EXTensions (radext)
--------------------------

  "NAI-based Dynamic Peer Discovery for RADIUS/TLS and RADIUS/DTLS",
  Stefan Winter, Mike McCauley, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-ietf-radext-dynamic-discovery-08.txt>

      This document specifies a means to find authoritative RADIUS servers
      for a given realm.  It is used in conjunction with either RADIUS/TLS
      and RADIUS/DTLS.

  "DTLS as a Transport Layer for RADIUS", Alan DeKok, 2013-10-09,
  <draft-ietf-radext-dtls-07.txt>

      The RADIUS protocol [RFC2865] has limited support for authentication
      and encryption of RADIUS packets.  The protocol transports data "in
      the clear", although some parts of the packets can have "obfuscated"
      content.  Packets may be replayed verbatim by an attacker, and
      client-server authentication is based on fixed shared secrets.  This
      document specifies how the Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)
      protocol may be used as a fix for these problems.  It also describes
      how implementations of this proposal can co-exist with current RADIUS
      systems.

  "RADIUS Attributes for IEEE 802 Networks", Bernard Aboba, Jouni Malinen,
  Paul Congdon, Joseph Salowey, Mark Jones, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-ietf-radext-ieee802ext-09.txt>

      RFC 3580 provides guidelines for the use of the Remote Authentication
      Dialin User Service (RADIUS) within IEEE 802 local area networks
      (LANs).  This document proposes additional attributes for use within
      IEEE 802 networks, as well as clarifying the usage of the EAP-Key-
      Name attribute (updating RFC 4072) and the Called-Station-Id
      attribute (updating RFC 3580).  The attributes defined in this
      document are usable both within RADIUS and Diameter.

  "The Network Access Identifier", Alan DeKok, 2013-10-17,
  <draft-ietf-radext-nai-04.txt>

      In order to provide inter-domain authentication services, it is
      necessary to have a standardized method that domains can use to
      identify each others users.  This document defines the syntax for the
      Network Access Identifier (NAI), the user identity submitted by the
      client prior to accessing network resources. This document is a
      revised version of RFC 4282 [RFC4282], which addresses issues with
      international character sets, as well as a number of other
      corrections to the previous document.

  "Support of fragmentation of RADIUS packets", Alejandro Perez-Mendez,
  Rafael Lopez, Fernando Pereniguez-Garcia, Gabriel Lopez-Millan, Diego
  Lopez, Alan DeKok, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-radext-radius-fragmentation-01.txt>

      The Remote Authentication Dial-In User Service (RADIUS) protocol is
      limited to a total packet size of 4096 octets.  Provisions exist for
      fragmenting large amounts of authentication data across multiple
      packets, via Access-Challenge.  No similar provisions exist for
      fragmenting large amounts of authorization data.  This document
      specifies how existing RADIUS mechanisms can be leveraged to provide
      that functionality.  These mechanisms are largely compatible with
      existing implementations, and are designed to be invisible to
      proxies, and "fail-safe" to legacy clients and servers.

Real-time Applications and Infrastructure Area (rai)
----------------------------------------------------

  "Considerations for Information Services and Operator Services Using
  SIP", John Haluska, Richard Ahern, Marty Cruze, Chris Blackwell,
  2011-08-15, <draft-haluska-sipping-directory-assistance-11.txt>

      Information Services are services whereby information is provided in
      response to user requests, and may include involvement of a human or
      automated agent. A popular existing Information Service is Directory
      Assistance (DA). Moving ahead, Information Services providers
      envision exciting multimedia services that support simultaneous
      voice and data interactions with full operator backup at any time
      during the call. Information Services providers are planning to
      migrate to SIP based platforms, which will enable such advanced
      services, while continuing to support traditional DA services.
      
      Operator Services are traditional PSTN services which often involve
      providing human or automated assistance to a caller, and often
      require the specialized capabilities traditionally provided by an
      operator services switch. Market and/or regulatory factors in some
      jurisdictions dictate that some subset of Operator Services continue
      to be provided going forward.
      
      This document aims to identify how Operator and Information Services
      can be implemented using existing or currently proposed SIP
      mechanisms, to identity existing protocol gaps, and to provide a set
      of Best Current Practices to facilitate interoperability. For
      Operator Services, the intention is to describe how current operator
      services can continue to be provided to PSTN based subscribers via a
      SIP based operator services architecture. It also looks at how
      current operator services might be provided to SIP based subscribers
      via such an architecture, but does not consider the larger question
      of the need for or usefulness or suitability of each of these
      services for SIP based subscribers.
      
      This document addresses the needs of current Operator and
      Information Services providers; as such, the intended audience
      includes vendors of equipment and services to such providers.

  "A Uniform Resource Name Namespace for the Global System for Mobile
  communications Association (GSMA) and the International Mobile station
  Equipment Identity (IMEI)", Michael Montemurro, Andrew Allen, David
  McDonald, Paul Gosden, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-montemurro-gsma-imei-urn-17.txt>

      This specification specifies a Uniform Resource Name namespace for
      the GSMA (Global System for Mobile communications Association) and a
      Namespace Specific String (NSS) for the IMEI (International Mobile
      station Equipment Identity), and an associated parameter for the
      IMEISV (International Mobile station Equipment Identity and Software
      Version number).  The IMEI is 15 decimal digits long and the IMEISV
      is 16 decimal digits long and both are encoded using Binary Encoded
      Decimal (BCD).  The IMEI and IMEISV were introduced as part of the
      specification for Global System for Mobile communications (GSM) and
      are also now incorporated by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project
      (3GPP) as part of the 3GPP specification for GSM, the Universal
      Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) and 3GPP LTE (Long Term
      Evolution).  The IMEI and IMEISV are used to uniquely identify Mobile
      Equipment within these systems and are managed by the GSMA.

  "IANA Registering a SIP Resource Priority Header Field Namespace for
  Local Emergency Communications", James Polk, 2013-02-23,
  <draft-polk-local-emergency-rph-namespace-05.txt>

      This document creates the new Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)
      Resource Priority header field namespace 'esnet' for local emergency
      session establishment to a public safety answering point (PSAP),
      between PSAPs, and between a PSAP and first responders and their
      organizations, and places this namespace in the IANA registry.

  "Using the International Mobile station Equipment Identity (IMEI)
  Uniform Resource Name (URN) as an Instance ID", Andrew Allen,
  2013-10-18, <draft-allen-dispatch-imei-urn-as-instanceid-11.txt>

      This specification specifies how the Uniform Resource Name (URN)
      reserved for the GSMA (GSM Association) identities and its sub-
      namespace for the IMEI (International Mobile station Equipment
      Identity) can be used as an instance-id.  Its purpose is to fulfil
      the requirements in RFC 5626 [1] that state "If a URN scheme other
      than UUID (Universally unique identifier) is used, the UA (User
      Agent) MUST only use URNs for which an RFC (from the IETF stream)
      defines how the specific URN needs to be constructed and used in the
      "+sip.instance" Contact header field parameter for outbound
      behavior."

  "URI Scheme for Session Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN) Protocol",
  Suhas Nandakumar, Gonzalo Salgueiro, Paul Jones, Marc Petit-Huguenin,
  2013-09-27, <draft-nandakumar-rtcweb-stun-uri-08.txt>

      This document is the specification of the syntax and semantics of the
      Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) scheme for the Session Traversal
      Utilities for NAT (STUN) protocol.

  "Traversal Using Relays around NAT (TURN) Uniform Resource Identifiers",
  Marc Petit-Huguenin, Suhas Nandakumar, Gonzalo Salgueiro, Paul Jones,
  2013-09-27, <draft-petithuguenin-behave-turn-uris-08.txt>

      This document specifies the syntax of Uniform Resource Identifier
      (URI) schemes for the Traversal Using Relays around NAT (TURN)
      protocol.  It defines two URI schemes to provision the TURN
      Resolution Mechanism [RFC5928].

  "A Group Text Chat Purpose for Conference and Service URIs in the
  Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Event Package for Conference State",
  Emil Ivov, 2013-06-18, <draft-ivov-grouptextchat-purpose-03.txt>

      This document defines and registers a value of "grouptextchat"
      ("Group Text Chat") value for the URI <purpose> element of SIP's
      Conference Event Package [RFC4575].

  "A Session Identifier for the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)",
  Hadriel Kaplan, 2013-08-02, <draft-kaplan-insipid-session-id-03.txt>

      This RFC, which contains the text of an individual Internet Draft
      that was submitted originally to the DISPATCH Working Group, is
      being published now as an Informational document to provide a
      reference for later RFCs.  The mechanism defined in this document
      has been widely deployed, and is being followed in a backward-
      compatible fashion for a new Standards Track RFC in the INSIPID
      Working Group.  The original Abstract follows.
      
      There is a need for having a globally unique session identifier for
      the same SIP session, which can be consistently maintained across
      Proxies, B2BUAs and other SIP middle-boxes, for the purpose of
      Troubleshooting.  This draft proposes a new SIP header to carry such
      a value: Session-ID.

Reputation Services (repute)
----------------------------

  "A Reputation Query Protocol", Nathaniel Borenstein, Murray Kucherawy,
  2013-09-12, <draft-ietf-repute-query-http-11.txt>

      This document defines a mechanism to conduct queries for reputation
      information over the Hypertext Transfer Protocol using JSON as the
      payload meta-format.

  "A Media Type for Reputation Interchange", Nathaniel Borenstein, Murray
  Kucherawy, 2013-09-15, <draft-ietf-repute-media-type-13.txt>

      This document defines the format of reputation response data
      ("reputons"), the media-type for packaging it, and definition of a
      registry for the names of reputation applications and response sets.

  "A Reputation Response Set for Email Identifiers", Nathaniel Borenstein,
  Murray Kucherawy, 2013-09-12,
  <draft-ietf-repute-email-identifiers-10.txt>

      This document defines a response set for describing assertions a
      reputation service provider can make about email identifers, for use
      in generating reputons.

  "An Architecture for Reputation Reporting", Nathaniel Borenstein, Murray
  Kucherawy, Andrew Sullivan, 2013-09-17, <draft-ietf-repute-model-10.txt>

      This document describes a general architecture for a reputation-based
      service, allowing one to request reputation-related data over the
      Internet, where "reputation" refers to predictions or expectations
      about an entity or an identifier such as a domain name.  The document
      roughly follows the recommendations of RFC4101 for describing a
      protocol model.

  "Operational Considerations Regarding Reputation Services", Murray
  Kucherawy, 2013-05-20, <draft-ietf-repute-considerations-02.txt>

      The use of reputation systems is has become a common tool in many
      applications that seek to apply collected intelligence about traffic
      sources.  Often this is done because it is common or even expected
      operator practice.  It is therefore important to be aware of a number
      of considerations for both operators and consumers of the data.  This
      document includes a collection of the best advice available regarding
      providers and consumers of reputation data, based on experience to
      date.  Much of this is based on experience with email reputation
      systems, but the concepts are generally applicable.

RTP Media Congestion Avoidance Techniques (rmcat)
-------------------------------------------------

  "Evaluating Congestion Control for Interactive Real-time Media", Varun
  Singh, Joerg Ott, 2013-10-20, <draft-singh-rmcat-cc-eval-04.txt>

      The Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) is used to transmit media in
      telephony and video conferencing applications.  This document
      describes the guidelines to evaluate new congestion control
      algorithms for interactive point-to-point real-time media.

  "Congestion Control Requirements For RMCAT", Randell Jesup, 2013-07-19,
  <draft-ietf-rmcat-cc-requirements-00.txt>

      Congestion control is needed for all data transported across the
      Internet, in order to promote fair usage and prevent congestion
      collapse.  The requirements for interactive, point-to-point real time
      multimedia, which needs by low-delay, semi-reliable data delivery,
      are different from the requirements for bulk transfer like FTP or
      bursty transfers like Web pages, and the TCP algorithms are not
      suitable for this traffic.
      
      This document attempts to describe a set of requirements that can be
      used to evaluate other congestion control mechanisms in order to
      figure out their fitness for this purpose, and in particular to
      provide a set of possible requirements for proposals coming out of
      the RMCAT Working Group.
      
      This document is derived from draft-jesup-rtp-congestion-reqs
      [I-D.jesup-rtp-congestion-reqs].

Reliable Multicast Transport (rmt)
----------------------------------

  "Security and Reliable Multicast Transport Protocols: Discussions and
  Guidelines", Brian Adamson, Vincent Roca, Hitoshi Asaeda, 2013-05-17,
  <draft-ietf-rmt-sec-discussion-08.txt,.pdf>

      This document describes general security considerations for Reliable
      Multicast Transport (RMT) building blocks and protocols.  An emphasis
      is placed on risks that might be resolved in the scope of transport
      protocol design.  However, relevant security issues related to IP
      Multicast control-plane and other concerns not strictly within the
      scope of reliable transport protocol design are also discussed.  The
      document also begins an exploration of approaches that could be
      embraced to mitigate these risks.  The purpose of this document is to
      provide a consolidated security discussion and provide a basis for
      further discussions and potential resolution of any significant
      security issues that may exist in the current set of RMT standards.

Routing Over Low power and Lossy networks (roll)
------------------------------------------------

  "Terms used in Ruting for Low power And Lossy Networks", JP Vasseur,
  2013-10-02, <draft-ietf-roll-terminology-13.txt>

      The documents provides a glossary of terminology used in routing
      requirements and solutions for networks referred to as Low power and
      Lossy Networks (LLN).  An LLN is typically composed of many embedded
      devices with limited power, memory, and processing resources
      interconnected by a variety of links.  There is a wide scope of
      application areas for LLNs, including industrial monitoring, building
      automation (e.g.  Heating, Ventilating, Air Conditioning, lighting,
      access control, fire), connected home, healthcare, environmental
      monitoring, urban sensor networks, energy management, assets
      tracking, refrigeration.

  "Multicast Protocol for Low power and Lossy Networks (MPL)", Jonathan
  Hui, Richard Kelsey, 2013-08-29, <draft-ietf-roll-trickle-mcast-05.txt>

      This document specifies the Multicast Protocol for Low power and
      Lossy Networks (MPL) that provides IPv6 multicast forwarding in
      constrained networks.  MPL avoids the need to construct or maintain
      any multicast forwarding topology, disseminating messages to all MPL
      Forwarders in an MPL Domain.  MPL uses the Trickle algorithm to
      manage message transmissions for both control and data-plane
      messages.  Different Trickle parameter configurations allow MPL to
      trade between dissemination latency and transmission efficiency.

  "Applicability Statement for the Routing Protocol for Low Power and
  Lossy Networks (RPL) in AMI Networks", Daniel Popa, Jorjeta Jetcheva,
  Nicolas Dejean, Ruben Salazar, Jonathan Hui, Kazuya Monden, 2013-07-18,
  <draft-ietf-roll-applicability-ami-07.txt>

      This document discusses the applicability of RPL in Advanced Metering
      Infrastructure (AMI) networks.

  "A Security Threat Analysis for Routing over Low-Power and Lossy
  Networks", Tzeta Tsao, Roger Alexander, Mischa Dohler, Vanesa Daza,
  Angel Lozano, Michael Richardson, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-roll-security-threats-05.txt>

      This document presents a security threat analysis for routing over
      low-power and lossy networks (LLN).  The development builds upon
      previous work on routing security and adapts the assessments to the
      issues and constraints specific to low-power and lossy networks.  A
      systematic approach is used in defining and evaluating the security
      threats.  Applicable countermeasures are application specific and are
      addressed in relevant applicability statements.  These assessments
      provide the basis of the security recommendations for incorporation
      into low-power, lossy network routing protocols.

  "ROLL Applicability Statement Template", Michael Richardson, 2013-09-17,
  <draft-ietf-roll-applicability-template-03.txt>

      This document is a template applicability statement for the Routing
      over Low-power and Lossy Networks (ROLL) WG.  This document is not
      for publication, but rather is to be used as a template.

  "RPL applicability in industrial networks", Tom Phinney, Pascal Thubert,
  Robert Assimiti, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-roll-rpl-industrial-applicability-02.txt>

      The wide deployment of wireless devices, with their low installed
      cost (compared to wired devices), will significantly improve the
      productivity and safety of industrial plants.  It will simultaneously
      increase the efficiency and safety of the plant's workers, by
      extending and making more timely the information set available about
      plant operations.  The new Routing Protocol for Low Power and Lossy
      Networks (RPL) defines a Distance Vector protocol that is designed
      for such networks.  The aim of this document is to analyze the
      applicability of that routing protocol in industrial LLNs formed of
      field devices.

  "Applicability Statement: The use of the RPL protocol set in Home
  Automation and Building Control", Anders Brandt, Emmanuel Baccelli,
  Robert Cragie, Peter Van der Stok, 2013-08-17,
  <draft-ietf-roll-applicability-home-building-01.txt,.pdf>

      The purpose of this document is to provide guidance in the selection
      and use of RPL protocols to implement the features required in
      building and home environments.

Real-Time Communication in WEB-browsers (rtcweb)
------------------------------------------------

  "Web Real-Time Communication Use-cases and Requirements", Christer
  Holmberg, Stefan Hakansson, Goran Eriksson, 2013-10-14,
  <draft-ietf-rtcweb-use-cases-and-requirements-12.txt>

      This document describes web based real-time communication use-cases.
      Requirements on the browser functionality are derived from use-cases.

  "Overview: Real Time Protocols for Brower-based Applications", Harald
  Alvestrand, 2013-09-03, <draft-ietf-rtcweb-overview-08.txt>

      This document gives an overview and context of a protocol suite
      intended for use with real-time applications that can be deployed in
      browsers - "real time communication on the Web".
      
      It intends to serve as a starting and coordination point to make sure
      all the parts that are needed to achieve this goal are findable, and
      that the parts that belong in the Internet protocol suite are fully
      specified and on the right publication track.
      
      This document is a work item of the RTCWEB working group.

  "Web Real-Time Communication (WebRTC): Media Transport and Use of RTP",
  Colin Perkins, Magnus Westerlund, Joerg Ott, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-rtcweb-rtp-usage-10.txt>

      The Web Real-Time Communication (WebRTC) framework provides support
      for direct interactive rich communication using audio, video, text,
      collaboration, games, etc. between two peers' web-browsers.  This
      memo describes the media transport aspects of the WebRTC framework.
      It specifies how the Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) is used in
      the WebRTC context, and gives requirements for which RTP features,
      profiles, and extensions need to be supported.

  "Security Considerations for WebRTC", Eric Rescorla, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-ietf-rtcweb-security-05.txt>

      The Real-Time Communications on the Web (RTCWEB) working group is
      tasked with standardizing protocols for real-time communications
      between Web browsers, generally called "WebRTC".  The major use cases
      for WebRTC technology are real-time audio and/or video calls, Web
      conferencing, and direct data transfer.  Unlike most conventional
      real-time systems (e.g., SIP-based soft phones) WebRTC communications
      are directly controlled by a Web server, which poses new security
      challenges.  For instance, a Web browser might expose a JavaScript
      API which allows a server to place a video call.  Unrestricted access
      to such an API would allow any site which a user visited to "bug" a
      user's computer, capturing any activity which passed in front of
      their camera.  This document defines the WebRTC threat model and
      analyzes the security threats of WebRTC in that model.

  "WebRTC Security Architecture", Eric Rescorla, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-ietf-rtcweb-security-arch-07.txt>

      The Real-Time Communications on the Web (RTCWEB) working group is
      tasked with standardizing protocols for enabling real-time
      communications within user-agents using web technologies (commonly
      called "WebRTC").  This document defines the security architecture
      for

  "Javascript Session Establishment Protocol", Justin Uberti, Cullen
  Jennings, 2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-rtcweb-jsep-05.txt>

      This document describes the mechanisms for allowing a Javascript
      application to control the signaling plane of a multimedia session
      via the interface specified in the W3C RTCPeerConnection API, and
      discusses how this relates to existing signaling protocols.

  "RTCWeb Data Channels", Randell Jesup, Salvatore Loreto, Michael Tuexen,
  2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-rtcweb-data-channel-06.txt>

      The Real-Time Communication in WEB-browsers (RTCWeb) working group is
      charged to provide protocol support for direct interactive rich
      communication using audio, video, and data between two peers' web-
      browsers.  This document specifies the non-media data transport
      aspects of the RTCWeb framework.  It provides an architectural
      overview of how the Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) is
      used in the RTCWeb context as a generic transport service allowing
      WEB-browsers to exchange generic data from peer to peer.

  "WebRTC Audio Codec and Processing Requirements", Jean-Marc Valin, Cary
  Bran, 2013-10-15, <draft-ietf-rtcweb-audio-03.txt>

      This document outlines the audio codec and processing requirements
      for WebRTC client application and endpoint devices.

  "RTCWeb Data Channel Protocol", Randell Jesup, Salvatore Loreto, Michael
  Tuexen, 2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-rtcweb-data-protocol-01.txt>

      The Web Real-Time Communication (WebRTC) working group is charged to
      provide protocols to support for direct interactive rich
      communication using audio, video, and data between two peers' web-
      browsers.  This document specifies a simple protocol for establishing
      symmetric data channels between the peers.  It uses a two way
      handshake and allows sending of user data without waiting for the
      handshake to complete.

  "Transports for RTCWEB", Harald Alvestrand, 2013-09-03,
  <draft-ietf-rtcweb-transports-01.txt>

      This document describes the data transport protocols used by RTCWEB,
      including the protocols used for interaction with intermediate boxes
      such as firewalls, relays and NAT boxes.

  "STUN Usage for Consent Freshness", Muthu Perumal, Dan Wing, Ram R,
  Tirumaleswar Reddy, 2013-09-20,
  <draft-ietf-rtcweb-stun-consent-freshness-00.txt>

      Verification of peer consent before sending traffic is necessary in
      WebRTC deployments to ensure that a malicious JavaScript cannot use
      the browser as a platform for launching attacks.  A related problem
      is session liveness.  WebRTC application may want to detect
      connection failure and take appropriate action.
      
      This document describes how a WebRTC browser can verify peer consent
      to continue sending traffic and detect connection failure.

Routing Area (rtg)
------------------

  "A Record of Discussions of Graceful Restart Extensions for
  Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD)", Palanivelan Appanasamy,
  2011-11-17, <draft-palanivelan-bfd-v2-gr-13.txt>

      This document is a historical record of discussions about extending
      the Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) protocol to provide
      additional capabilities to handle Graceful Restart.
      
      These discussions took place in the context of the IETF's BFD working
      group, and the consensus in that group was that these extensions
      should not be made.
      
      This document presents a summary of the challenges to BFD in
      surviving a graceful restart, and outlines a potential protocol
      solution that was discussed and rejected within the BFD working
      group.  The purpose of this document is to provide a record of the
      work done so that future effort will not be wasted.  This document
      does not propose or document any extensions to BFD, and there is no
      intention that it should be implemented in its current form.

Routing Area Working Group (rtgwg)
----------------------------------

  "Requirements for Advanced Multipath in MPLS Networks", Curtis
  Villamizar, Dave McDysan, So Ning, Andrew Malis, Lucy Yong, 2013-10-09,
  <draft-ietf-rtgwg-cl-requirement-12.txt>

      This document provides a set of requirements for Advanced Multipath
      in MPLS Networks.
      
      Advanced Multipath is a formalization of multipath techniques
      currently in use in IP and MPLS networks and a set of extensions to
      existing multipath techniques.

  "An Architecture for IP/LDP Fast-Reroute Using Maximally Redundant
  Trees", Alia Atlas, Robert Kebler, Gabor Envedi, Andras Csaszar, Jeff
  Tantsura, Maciek Konstantynowicz, Russ White, 2013-07-12,
  <draft-ietf-rtgwg-mrt-frr-architecture-03.txt>

      With increasing deployment of Loop-Free Alternates (LFA) [RFC5286],
      it is clear that a complete solution for IP and LDP Fast-Reroute is
      required.  This specification provides that solution.  IP/LDP Fast-
      Reroute with Maximally Redundant Trees (MRT-FRR) is a technology that
      gives link-protection and node-protection with 100% coverage in any
      network topology that is still connected after the failure.
      
      MRT removes all need to engineer for coverage.  MRT is also extremely
      computationally efficient.  For any router in the network, the MRT
      computation is less than the LFA computation for a node with three or
      more neighbors.

  "Remote LFA FRR", Stewart Bryant, Clarence Filsfils, Stefano Previdi,
  Mike Shand, So Ning, 2013-05-23, <draft-ietf-rtgwg-remote-lfa-02.txt>

      This draft describes an extension to the basic IP fast re-route
      mechanism described in RFC5286 that provides additional backup
      connectivity for link failures when none can be provided by the basic
      mechanisms.

  "Advannced Multipath Use Cases and Design Considerations", So Ning,
  Andrew Malis, Dave McDysan, Lucy Yong, Curtis Villamizar, 2013-07-13,
  <draft-ietf-rtgwg-cl-use-cases-04.txt>

      This document provides a set of use cases and design considerations
      for Advanced Multipath.
      
      Advanced Multipath is a formalization of multipath techniques
      currently in use in IP and MPLS networks and a set of extensions to
      existing multipath techniques.

  "Advanced Multipath Framework in MPLS", So Ning, Dave McDysan, Eric
  Osborne, Lucy Yong, Curtis Villamizar, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-ietf-rtgwg-cl-framework-04.txt>

      This document specifies a framework for support of Advanced Multipath
      in MPLS networks.  As defined in this framework, an Advanced
      Multipath consists of a group of homogenous or non-homogenous links
      that have the same forward adjacency (FA) and can be considered as a
      single TE link or an IP link when advertised into IGP routing.

  "Multicast only Fast Re-Route", Apoorva Karan, Clarence Filsfils, Dino
  Farinacci, IJsbrand Wijnands, Bruno Decraene, Uwe Joorde, Wim
  Henderickx, 2013-06-21, <draft-ietf-rtgwg-mofrr-02.txt>

      As IPTV deployments grow in number and size, service providers are
      looking for solutions that minimize the service disruption due to
      faults in the IP network carrying the packets for these services.
      This draft describes a mechanism for minimizing packet loss in a
      network when node or link failures occur.  Multicast only Fast Re-
      Route (MoFRR) works by making simple enhancements to multicast
      routing protocols such as PIM and mLDP.

  "Operational management of Loop Free Alternates", Stephane Litkowski,
  Bruno Decraene, Clarence Filsfils, Kamran Raza, 2013-05-13,
  <draft-ietf-rtgwg-lfa-manageability-00.txt>

      Loop Free Alternates (LFA), as defined in RFC 5286 is an IP Fast
      ReRoute (IP FRR) mechanism enabling traffic protection for IP traffic
      (and MPLS LDP traffic by extension).  Following first deployment
      experiences, this document provides operational feedback on LFA,
      highlights some limitations, and proposes a set of refinements to
      address those limitations.  It also proposes required management
      specifications.
      
      This proposal is also applicable to remote LFA solution.

Security Automation and Continuous Monitoring (sacm)
----------------------------------------------------

  "Endpoint Security Posture Assessment - Enterprise Use Cases", David
  Waltermire, David Harrington, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-sacm-use-cases-04.txt>

      This memo documents a sampling of use cases for securely aggregating
      configuration and operational data and evaluating that data to
      determine an organization's security posture.  From these operational
      use cases, we can derive common functional capabilities and
      requirements to guide development of vendor-neutral, interoperable
      standards for aggregating and evaluating data relevant to security
      posture.

  "Terminology for Security Assessment", David Waltermire, Adam Montville,
  David Harrington, 2013-10-19, <draft-ietf-sacm-terminology-01.txt>

      This memo documents terminology used in the documents produced by the
      SACM WG (Security Automation and Continuous Monitoring).

Sip ALerting for User Devices (salud)
-------------------------------------

  "URNs for the Alert-Info Header Field of the Session Initiation Protocol
  (SIP)", Laura Liess, Roland Jesske, Alan Johnston, Dale Worley, Paul
  Kyzivat, 2013-10-21, <draft-ietf-salud-alert-info-urns-09.txt>

      The Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) supports the capability to
      provide a reference to a specific rendering to be used by the UA when
      the user is alerted.  This is done using the Alert-Info header field.
      However, the reference (typically a URL) addresses only a specific
      network resource with specific rendering properties.  There is
      currently no support for standard identifiers for describing the
      semantics of the alerting situation or the characteristics of the
      alerting signal, without being tied to a particular rendering.  To
      overcome these limitations and support new applications, a new family
      of URNs for use in SIP Alert-Info header fields (and situations with
      similar requirements) is defined in this specification.
      
      This document normatively updates [RFC3261], the Session Initiation
      Protocol (SIP): It changes the usage of the SIP Alert-Info header
      field defined in the [RFC3261] by additionally allowing its use in
      all provisional responses to INVITE (except the 100 response).

Scalable Adaptive Multicast Research Group (samrg)
--------------------------------------------------

  "A Common API for Transparent Hybrid Multicast", Matthias Waehlisch,
  Thomas Schmidt, Stig Venaas, 2013-10-10,
  <draft-irtf-samrg-common-api-10.txt>

      Group communication services exist in a large variety of flavors and
      technical implementations at different protocol layers.  Multicast
      data distribution is most efficiently performed on the lowest
      available layer, but a heterogeneous deployment status of multicast
      technologies throughout the Internet requires an adaptive service
      binding at runtime.  Today, it is difficult to write an application
      that runs everywhere and at the same time makes use of the most
      efficient multicast service available in the network.  Facing
      robustness requirements, developers are frequently forced to use a
      stable, upper layer protocol provided by the application itself.
      This document describes a common multicast API that is suitable for
      transparent communication in underlay and overlay, and grants access
      to the different multicast flavors.  It proposes an abstract naming
      by multicast URIs and discusses mapping mechanisms between different
      namespaces and distribution technologies.  Additionally, this
      document describes the application of this API for building gateways
      that interconnect current multicast domains throughout the Internet.
      It reports on an implementation of the programming interface,
      including a service middleware.  This document is a product of the
      Scalable Adaptive Multicast (SAM) Research Group.

Source Address Validation Improvements (savi)
---------------------------------------------

  "SEND-based Source-Address Validation Implementation", Marcelo Bagnulo,
  Alberto Garcia-Martinez, 2013-04-26, <draft-ietf-savi-send-10.txt>

      This memo describes SEND SAVI, a mechanism to provide source address
      validation using the SEND protocol.  The proposed mechanism is
      intended to complement ingress filtering techniques to provide a
      finer granularity on the control of the source addresses used.

  "SAVI Solution for DHCP", Jun Bi, Jianping Wu, Guang Yao, Fred Baker,
  2013-06-28, <draft-ietf-savi-dhcp-18.txt>

      This document specifies the procedure for creating a binding between
      a DHCPv4/DHCPv6 assigned IP address and a binding anchor on a SAVI
      (Source Address Validation Improvements) device.  The bindings set up
      by this procedure can be used to filter out packets with forged
      source IP address in DHCP scenario.  This mechanism is proposed as a
      complement to ingress filtering to provide finer-grained source IP
      address validation.

  "Source Address Validation Improvement Framework", Jianping Wu, Jun Bi,
  Marcelo Bagnulo, Fred Baker, Christian Vogt, 2012-01-08,
  <draft-ietf-savi-framework-06.txt>

      Source Address Validation Improvement methods were developed to
      prevent nodes attached to the same IP link from spoofing each other's
      IP addresses, so as to complement ingress filtering with finer-
      grained, standardized IP source address validation.  This document is
      a framework document, which describes and motivates the design of the
      SAVI methods.  Particular SAVI methods are described in other
      documents.

  "SAVI for Mixed Address Assignment Methods Scenario", Jun Bi, Guang Yao,
  Joel Halpern, Eric Levy-Abegnoli, 2013-05-06,
  <draft-ietf-savi-mix-04.txt>

      This document reviews how multiple address discovery methods can
      coexist in a single SAVI device and collisions are resolved when the
      same binding entry is discovered by two or more methods.

System for Cross-domain Identity Management (scim)
--------------------------------------------------

  "System for Cross-Domain Identity Management:Protocol", Trey Drake,
  Chuck Mortimore, Morteza Ansari, Kelly Grizzle, Erik Wahlstroem,
  2013-08-30, <draft-ietf-scim-api-02.txt,.pdf>

      The System for Cross-Domain Identity Management (SCIM) specification
      is designed to make managing user identity in cloud based
      applications and services easier.  The specification suite seeks to
      build upon experience with existing schemas and deployments, placing
      specific emphasis on simplicity of development and integration, while
      applying existing authentication, authorization, and privacy models.
      It's intent is to reduce the cost and complexity of user management
      operations by providing a common user schema and extension model, as
      well as binding documents to provide patterns for exchanging this
      schema using standard protocols.  In essence, make it fast, cheap,
      and easy to move users in to, out of, and around the cloud.

  "System for Cross-Domain Identity Management: Core Schema", Chuck
  Mortimore, Patrick Harding, Paul Madsen, Trey Drake, 2013-08-30,
  <draft-ietf-scim-core-schema-02.txt,.pdf>

      The System for Cross-Domain Identity Management (SCIM) specification
      is designed to make managing user identity in cloud based
      applications and services easier.  The specification suite builds
      upon experience with existing schemas and deployments, placing
      specific emphasis on simplicity of development and integration, while
      applying existing authentication, authorization, and privacy models.
      Its intent is to reduce the cost and complexity of user management
      operations by providing a common user schema and extension model, as
      well as binding documents to provide patterns for exchanging this
      schema using standard protocols.  In essence, make it fast, cheap,
      and easy to move identity in to, out of, and around the cloud.
      
      This document provides a platform neutral schema and extension model
      for representing users and groups in JSON format.  This schema is
      intended for exchange and use with cloud service providers.
      Additional binding documents provide a standard REST API, SAML
      binding, and use cases.

  "SCIM Use Cases", Phil Hunt, Bhumip Khasnabish, Anthony Nadalin, Kepeng
  Li, Zachary Zeltsan, 2013-08-30, <draft-ietf-scim-use-cases-00.txt>

      This document lists the user scenarios and use cases of System for
      Cross-domain Identity Management (SCIM).

Security Area (sec)
-------------------

  "Simple Certificate Enrollment Protocol", Max Pritikin, Andrew Nourse, J
  Vilhuber, 2011-09-07, <draft-nourse-scep-23.txt>

      This document specifies the Simple Certificate Enrollment Protocol
      (SCEP), a Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) communication protocol
      which leverages existing technology by using PKCS#7 and PKCS#10 over
      HTTP.  SCEP is the evolution of the enrollment protocol developed by
      VeriSign, Inc. for Cisco Systems, Inc. It now enjoys wide support in
      both client and a Certification Authority implementations.

  "AES-CCM ECC Cipher Suites for TLS", David McGrew, Daniel Bailey,
  Matthew Campagna, Robert Dugal, 2013-08-30,
  <draft-mcgrew-tls-aes-ccm-ecc-07.txt>

      This memo describes the use of the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES)
      in the Counter and CBC-MAC Mode (CCM) of operation within Transport
      Layer Security (TLS) to provide confidentiality and data origin
      authentication.  The AES-CCM algorithm is amenable to compact
      implementations, making it suitable for constrained environments.
      The ciphersuites defined in this document use Elliptic Curve
      Cryptography (ECC), and are advantageous in networks with limited
      bandwidth.

  "PKCS #12: Personal Information Exchange Syntax v1.1", Kathleen
  Moriarty, Magnus Nystrom, Sean Parkinson, Andreas Rusch, Michael Scott,
  2013-10-21, <draft-moriarty-pkcs12v1-1-02.txt>

      This document represents a republication of PKCS #12 v1.1
      (Republication) From RSA Laboratories' Public Key Cryptography
      Standard (PKCS) series.  Change control is transferred to the IETF,
      and generally all rights in the copyright are hereby assigned from
      RSA to IETF, except that RSA reserves the internal right to continue
      publishing, with the right to modify, and distributing the
      Republication and its predecessors internally to RSA and its parent
      company EMC, including the right to make modifications to the
      Republication and its predecessors (the "RSA Internal Right").  For
      avoidance of doubt, RSA's Internal Right includes the right to post
      on its public website for use by other parties.  The body of this
      document, except for the security considerations section, is taken
      directly from the PKCS #12 v1.1 specification
      
      PKCS #12 v1.1 describes a transfer syntax for personal identity
      information, including private keys, certificates, miscellaneous
      secrets, and extensions.  Machines, applications, browsers, Internet
      kiosks, and so on, that support this standard will allow a user to
      import, export, and exercise a single set of personal identity
      information.  This standard supports direct transfer of personal
      information under several privacy and integrity modes.

  "Creation of a registry for smime-type parameter values", Barry Leiba,
  2013-10-18, <draft-leiba-smime-type-registry-01.txt>

      Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (S/MIME) defined the
      Content-Type parameter "smime-type".  As the list of defined values
      for that parameter has increased, it has become clear that a registry
      is needed to document those values.  This document creates that
      registry, registers the current values, and specifies the policies
      for registration of new values.

  "Object Identifier Registry for the S/MIME Mail Security Working Group",
  Russ Housley, 2013-10-20, <draft-housley-smime-oids-00.txt>

      When the S/MIME Mail Security Working Group was chartered, an object
      identifier arc was donated by RSA Data Security for use by that
      working group.  This document describes the object identifiers that
      were assigned in that donated arc, it transfers control of that arc
      to IANA, and it establishes IANA allocation policies for any future
      assignments within that arc.

Secure Inter-Domain Routing (sidr)
----------------------------------

  "A Publication Protocol for the Resource Public Key Infrastructure
  (RPKI)", Samuel Weiler, Anuja Sonalker, Rob Austein, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-ietf-sidr-publication-04.txt>

      This document defines a protocol for publishing Resource Public Key
      Infrastructure (RPKI) objects.  Even though the RPKI will have many
      participants issuing certificates and creating other objects, it is
      operationally useful to consolidate the publication of those objects.
      This document provides the protocol for doing so.

  "BGP Prefix Origin Validation State Extended Community", Pradosh
  Mohapatra, Keyur Patel, John Scudder, David Ward, Randy Bush,
  2013-08-29, <draft-ietf-sidr-origin-validation-signaling-03.txt>

      As part of the origination AS validation process, it can be desirable
      to automatically consider the validation state of routes in the BGP
      decision process.  The purpose of this document is to provide a
      specification for doing so.  The document also defines a new BGP
      opaque extended community to carry the validation state inside an
      autonomous system to influence the decision process of the IBGP
      speakers.

  "RPKI-Based Origin Validation Operation", Randy Bush, 2013-10-07,
  <draft-ietf-sidr-origin-ops-22.txt>

      Deployment of RPKI-based BGP origin validation has many operational
      considerations.  This document attempts to collect and present those
      which are most critical.  It is expected to evolve as RPKI-based
      origin validation continues to be deployed and the dynamics are
      better understood.

  "An Overview of BGPSEC", Matt Lepinski, Sean Turner, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-ietf-sidr-bgpsec-overview-03.txt>

      This document provides an overview of a security extension to the
      Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) referred to as BGPSEC.  BGPSEC improves
      security for BGP routing.

  "Threat Model for BGP Path Security", Stephen Kent, Andrew Chi,
  2013-10-08, <draft-ietf-sidr-bgpsec-threats-07.txt>

      This document describes a threat model for the context in which
      (E)BGP path security mechanisms will be developed.  The threat model
      includes an analysis of the RPKI, and focuses on the ability of an AS
      to verify the authenticity of the AS path info received in a BGP
      update.  We use the term PATHSEC to refer to any BGP path security
      technology that makes use of the RPKI.  PATHSEC will secure BGP
      [RFC4271], consistent with the inter-AS security focus of the RPKI
      [RFC6480].
      
      The document characterizes classes of potential adversaries that are
      considered to be threats, and examines classes of attacks that might
      be launched against PATHSEC.  It does not revisit attacks against
      unprotected BGP, as that topic has already been addressed in
      [RFC4271].  It concludes with brief discussion of residual
      vulnerabilities.

  "Security Requirements for BGP Path Validation", Steven Bellovin, Randy
  Bush, David Ward, 2013-10-08, <draft-ietf-sidr-bgpsec-reqs-08.txt>

      This document describes requirements for a BGP security protocol
      design to provide cryptographic assurance that the origin AS had the
      right to announce the prefix and to provide assurance of the AS Path
      of the announcement.

  "BGP Algorithms, Key Formats, & Signature Formats", Sean Turner,
  2013-09-17, <draft-ietf-sidr-bgpsec-algs-05.txt>

      This document specifies the algorithms, algorithms' parameters,
      asymmetric key formats, asymmetric key size and signature format used
      in BGPSEC (Border Gateway Protocol Security).  This document updates
      the Profile for Algorithms and Key Sizes for use in the Resource
      Public Key Infrastructure (RFC 6485).

  "A Profile for BGPSEC Router Certificates, Certificate Revocation Lists,
  and Certification Requests", Mark Reynolds, Sean Turner, Stephen Kent,
  2013-09-17, <draft-ietf-sidr-bgpsec-pki-profiles-06.txt>

      This document defines a standard profile for X.509 certificates for
      the purposes of supporting validation of Autonomous System (AS) paths
      in the Border Gateway Protocol (BGP), as part of an extension to that
      protocol known as BGPSEC.  BGP is a critical component for the proper
      operation of the Internet as a whole.  The BGPSEC protocol is under
      development as a component to address the requirement to provide
      security for the BGP protocol.  The goal of BGPSEC is to design a
      protocol for full AS path validation based on the use of strong
      cryptographic primitives.  The end-entity (EE) certificates specified
      by this profile are issued under Resource Public Key Infrastructure
      (RPKI) Certification Authority (CA) certificates, containing the AS
      Identifier Delegation extension, to routers within the Autonomous
      System (AS).  The certificate asserts that the router(s) holding the
      private key are authorized to send out secure route advertisements on
      behalf of the specified AS.  This document also profiles the
      Certificate Revocation List (CRL), profiles the format of
      certification requests, and specifies Relying Party certificate path
      validation procedures.  The document extends the RPKI; therefore,
      this documents updates the RPKI Resource Certificates Profile (RFC
      6487).

  "RPKI Router Implementation Report", Randy Bush, Rob Austein, Keyur
  Patel, Hannes Gredler, Matthias Waehlisch, 2013-10-15,
  <draft-ietf-sidr-rpki-rtr-impl-04.txt>

      This document is an implementation report for the RPKI Router
      protocol as defined in [RFC6810].  The editor did not verify the
      accuracy of the information provided by respondents.  The respondents
      are experts with the implementations they reported on, and their
      responses are considered authoritative for the implementations for
      which their responses represent.  Respondents were asked to only use
      the YES answer if the feature had at least been tested in the lab.

  "Router Keying for BGPsec", Sean Turner, Keyur Patel, Randy Bush,
  2013-09-17, <draft-ietf-sidr-rtr-keying-03.txt>

      BGPsec-speaking routers must be provisioned with private keys and the
      corresponding public key must be published in the global RPKI
      (Resource Public Key Infrastructure).  This document describes two
      ways of provisioning public/private keys, router-driven and operator-
      driven.

  "Template for a Certification Practice Statement (CPS) for the Resource
  PKI (RPKI)", Karen Seo, 2013-10-08, <draft-ietf-sidr-cps-03.txt>

      This document contains a template to be used for creating a
      Certification Practice Statement (CPS) for an Organization that is
      part of the Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI), e.g., a
      resource allocation registry or an ISP.

  "Policy Qualifiers in RPKI Certificates", Andrew Newton, Geoff Huston,
  2013-10-02, <draft-ietf-sidr-policy-qualifiers-01.txt>

      This document updates RFC 6487 by clarifying the inclusion of policy
      qualifiers in the certificate policies extension of RPKI resource
      certificates.

  "Multiple Repository Publication Points support in the Resource Public
  Key Infrastructure (RPKI)", Roque Gagliano, Terry Manderson, Carlos
  Martinez, 2013-05-22,
  <draft-ietf-sidr-multiple-publication-points-00.txt>

      The Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI) depends on Relying
      Parties (RP) ability to access its Trust Anchors' certificate
      specified in the different "Trust Anchor Locator (TAL)" files and the
      Repository Objects located at the Certificate Authorities (CA)
      repositories hosted in its respective publication point.  This
      document updates [RFC6490] by allowing multiple URI associated to a
      single public key in a TAL file and introduces the concept of
      multiple repository publication point operators for every CA in the
      RPKI.  This document provides also recommendation for the RP behavior
      when analyzing signed objects that include multiple publications
      points.

  "BGPSec Considerations for AS Migration", Wesley George, Sandra Murphy,
  2013-07-10, <draft-ietf-sidr-as-migration-00.txt>

      This draft discusses considerations and methods for supporting and
      securing a common method for AS-Migration within the BGPSec protocol.

SIP for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions (simple)
---------------------------------------------------------------------

  "Multi-party Chat Using the Message Session Relay Protocol (MSRP)", Aki
  Niemi, Miguel Garcia, Geir Sandbakken, 2013-01-13,
  <draft-ietf-simple-chat-18.txt>

      The Message Session Relay Protocol (MSRP) defines a mechanism for
      sending instant messages within a peer-to-peer session, negotiated
      using the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and the Session
      Description Protocol (SDP).  This document defines the necessary
      tools for establishing multi-party chat sessions, or chat rooms,
      using MSRP.

Session Initiation Protocol Core (sipcore)
------------------------------------------

  "An Extension to the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) for Request
  History Information", Mary Barnes, Francois Audet, Shida Schubert, Hans
  van Elburg, Christer Holmberg, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-sipcore-rfc4244bis-12.txt>

      This document defines a standard mechanism for capturing the history
      information associated with a Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)
      request.  This capability enables many enhanced services by providing
      the information as to how and why a SIP request arrives at a specific
      application or user.  This document defines an optional SIP header
      field, History-Info, for capturing the history information in
      requests.  The document also defines SIP header field parameters for
      the History-Info and Contact header fields to tag the method by which
      the target of a request is determined.  In addition, this
      specification defines a value for the Privacy header field that
      directs the anonymization of values in the History-Info header field.
      This document obsoletes RFC 4244.

  "The WebSocket Protocol as a Transport for the Session Initiation
  Protocol (SIP)", Inaki Castillo, Jose Millan, Victor Pascual,
  2013-06-12, <draft-ietf-sipcore-sip-websocket-09.txt>

      The WebSocket protocol enables two-way realtime communication between
      clients and servers in web-based applications.  This document
      specifies a WebSocket sub-protocol as a reliable transport mechanism
      between SIP (Session Initiation Protocol) entities to enable usage of
      SIP in web-oriented deployments.  This document normatively updates
      RFC 3261.

  "Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) History-Info Header Call Flow
  Examples", Mary Barnes, Francois Audet, Shida Schubert, Hans van Elburg,
  Christer Holmberg, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-sipcore-rfc4244bis-callflows-07.txt>

      This document describes use cases and documents call flows which
      require the History-Info header field to capture the Request-URIs as
      a Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Request is retargeted.  The use
      cases are described along with the corresponding call flow diagrams
      and messaging details.

SIP Recording (siprec)
----------------------

  "An Architecture for Media Recording using the Session Initiation
  Protocol", Andrew Hutton, Leon Portman, Rajnish Jain, Ken Rehor,
  2013-10-18, <draft-ietf-siprec-architecture-09.txt>

      Session recording is a critical requirement in many communications
      environments such as call centers and financial trading.  In some of
      these environments, all calls must be recorded for regulatory,
      compliance, and consumer protection reasons.  Recording of a session
      is typically performed by sending a copy of a media stream to a
      recording device.  This document describes architectures for
      deploying session recording solutions in an environment which is
      based on the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP).

  "Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Recording Metadata", Ram R,
  Parthasarathi Ravindran, Paul Kyzivat, 2013-05-27,
  <draft-ietf-siprec-metadata-12.txt>

      Session recording is a critical requirement in many communications
      environments such as call centers and financial trading.  In some of
      these environments, all calls must be recorded for regulatory,
      compliance, and consumer protection reasons.  Recording of a session
      is typically performed by sending a copy of a media stream to a
      recording device.  This document describes the metadata model as
      viewed by Session Recording Server(SRS) and the Recording metadata
      format.

  "Session Recording Protocol", Leon Portman, Henry Lum, Charles Eckel,
  Alan Johnston, Andrew Hutton, 2013-10-17,
  <draft-ietf-siprec-protocol-11.txt>

      This document specifies the use of the Session Initiation Protocol
      (SIP), the Session Description Protocol (SDP), and the Real Time
      Protocol (RTP) for delivering real-time media and metadata from a
      Communication Session (CS) to a recording device.  The Session
      Recording Protocol specifies the use of SIP, SDP, and RTP to
      establish a Recording Session (RS) between the Session Recording
      Client (SRC), which is on the path of the CS, and a Session Recording
      Server (SRS) at the recording device.

  "Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Recording Call Flows", Ram R,
  Parthasarathi Ravindran, Paul Kyzivat, 2013-07-13,
  <draft-ietf-siprec-callflows-01.txt>

      Session recording is a critical requirement in many communications
      environments such as call centers and financial trading.  In some of
      these environments, all calls must be recorded for regulatory,
      compliance, and consumer protection reasons.  Recording of a session
      is typically performed by sending a copy of a media stream to a
      recording device.  This document lists call flows that has snapshot
      of metadata sent from SRC to SRS, the metadata format for which is
      described in [I-D.ietf-siprec-metadata] .  This is purely an
      informational document that is written to support the model defined
      in the metadata draft.

SIP Overload Control (soc)
--------------------------

  "Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Overload Control", Vijay Gurbani,
  Volker Hilt, Henning Schulzrinne, 2013-05-23,
  <draft-ietf-soc-overload-control-13.txt>

      Overload occurs in Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) networks when
      SIP servers have insufficient resources to handle all SIP messages
      they receive.  Even though the SIP protocol provides a limited
      overload control mechanism through its 503 (Service Unavailable)
      response code, SIP servers are still vulnerable to overload.  This
      document defines the behaviour of SIP servers involved in overload
      control, and in addition, it specifies a loss-based overload scheme
      for SIP.

  "A Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Load Control Event Package",
  Charles Shen, Henning Schulzrinne, Arata Koike, 2013-07-30,
  <draft-ietf-soc-load-control-event-package-09.txt>

      We define a load control event package for the Session Initiation
      Protocol (SIP).  It allows SIP entities to distribute load filtering
      policies to other SIP entities in the network.  The load filtering
      policies contain rules to throttle calls based on their source or
      destination domain, telephone number prefix or for a specific user.
      The mechanism helps to prevent signaling overload and complements
      feedback-based SIP overload control efforts.

  "Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Rate Control", Eric Noel, Philip
  Williams, 2013-10-02, <draft-ietf-soc-overload-rate-control-06.txt>

      The prevalent use of Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) in Next
      Generation Networks necessitates that SIP networks provide adequate
      control mechanisms to maintain transaction throughput by preventing
      congestion collapse during traffic overloads. Already a loss-based
      solution to remedy known vulnerabilities of the SIP 503 (service
      unavailable) overload control mechanism has been proposed. This
      document proposes a rate-based control scheme to complement the
      loss-based control scheme, using the same signaling.

Softwires (softwire)
--------------------

  "Definitions of Managed Objects for 6rd", Lei Cai, Jacni Qin, Shishio
  Tsuchiya, 2013-05-16, <draft-cai-softwire-6rd-mib-05.txt>

      This document defines a portion of the Management Information Base
      (MIB) for use with network management protocols.  In particular, it
      defines objects for managing 6rd devices.

  "Public IPv4 over IPv6 Access Network", Yong Cui, Jianping Wu, Peng Wu,
  Olivier Vautrin, Yiu Lee, 2013-07-28,
  <draft-ietf-softwire-public-4over6-10.txt>

      This document describes a mechanism called Public 4over6 which is
      designed to provide IPv4 Internet connectivity over an IPv6 access
      network using global IPv4 addresses.  Public 4over6 was developed in
      the IETF and is in use in some existing deployments, but is not
      recommended for new deployments.  Future deployments of similar
      scenarios should use Lightweight 4over6.  Public 4over6 follows the
      Hub and Spoke softwire model, and uses an IPv4-in-IPv6 tunnel to
      forward IPv4 packets over IPv6 access network.  The bi-directionality
      of the IPv4 communication is achieved by explicitly allocating global
      non-shared IPv4 addresses to end users, as well as maintaining IPv4-
      IPv6 address binding on the border relay.  Public 4over6 aims to
      provide uninterrupted IPv4 services to users, like Internet Content
      Providers, etc., while an operator makes the transition of the access
      network to an IPv6-only access network.

  "Motivations for Carrier-side Stateless IPv4 over IPv6 Migration
  Solutions", Mohamed Boucadair, Satoru Matsushima, Yiu Lee, Olaf Bonness,
  Isabel Borges, Gang Chen, 2012-11-13,
  <draft-ietf-softwire-stateless-4v6-motivation-05.txt>

      IPv4 service continuity is one of the most pressing problems that
      must be resolved by Service Providers during the IPv6 transition
      period - especially after the exhaustion of the public IPv4 address
      space.  Current standardization effort that addresses IPv4 service
      continuity focuses on stateful mechanisms.  This document elaborates
      on the motivations for the need to undertake a companion effort to
      specify stateless IPv4 over IPv6 approaches.

  "Delivery of IPv4 Multicast Services to IPv4 Clients over an IPv6
  Multicast Network", Jacni Qin, Mohamed Boucadair, Christian Jacquenet,
  Yiu Lee, Qian Wang, 2013-10-07,
  <draft-ietf-softwire-dslite-multicast-06.txt>

      This document specifies a solution for the delivery of IPv4 multicast
      services to IPv4 clients over an IPv6 multicast network.  The
      solution relies upon a stateless IPv4-in-IPv6 encapsulation scheme
      and uses the IPv6 multicast distribution tree to deliver IPv4
      multicast traffic.  The solution is particularly useful for the
      delivery of multicast service offerings to DS-Lite serviced
      customers.

  "Softwire Mesh Multicast", Mingwei Xu, Yong Cui, Jianping Wu, Shu Yang,
  Chris Metz, Greg Shepherd, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-ietf-softwire-mesh-multicast-05.txt,.pdf>

      The Internet needs to support IPv4 and IPv6 packets.  Both address
      families and their attendant protocol suites support multicast of the
      single-source and any-source varieties.  As part of the transition to
      IPv6, there will be scenarios where a backbone network running one IP
      address family internally (referred to as internal IP or I-IP) will
      provide transit services to attached client networks running another
      IP address family (referred to as external IP or E-IP).  It is
      expected that the I-IP backbone will offer unicast and multicast
      transit services to the client E-IP networks.
      
      Softwire Mesh is a solution to E-IP unicast and multicast support
      across an I-IP backbone.  This document describes the mechanisms for
      supporting Internet-style multicast across a set of E-IP and I-IP
      networks supporting softwire mesh.

  "Definitions of Managed Objects for MAP-E", Yu Fu, Sheng Jiang, Bing
  Liu, Jiang Dong, Peng Wu, 2013-05-14, <draft-fu-softwire-map-mib-05.txt>

      This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
      for using with network management protocols in the Internet
      community. In particular, it defines managed objects for MAP
      encapsulation mode.

  "DHCPv6 Option for IPv4-Embedded Multicast and Unicast IPv6 Prefixes",
  Mohamed Boucadair, Jacni Qin, Tina Tsou, Xiaohong Deng, 2013-10-07,
  <draft-ietf-softwire-multicast-prefix-option-05.txt>

      This document defines Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol version 6
      (DHCPv6) Option for multicast transition solutions, aiming to convey
      the IPv6 prefixes to be used to build unicast and multicast
      IPv4-embedded IPv6 addresses.

  "IPv4 Residual Deployment via IPv6 - a Stateless Solution (4rd)", Remi
  Despres, Sheng Jiang, Reinaldo Penno, Yiu Lee, Gang Chen, Maoke Chen,
  2013-10-07, <draft-ietf-softwire-4rd-07.txt>

      The 4rd automatic tunneling mechanism makes IPv4 Residual Deployment
      possible via IPv6 networks without maintaining for this per-customer
      states in 4rd-capable nodes (reverse of the IPv6 Rapid Deployment of
      6rd).  To cope with the IPv4 address shortage, customer sites can be
      assigned shared public IPv4 addresses with restricted port sets. 4rd
      can also support the scenarios that customer sites are assigned full
      public IPv4 addresses or a set of public IPv4 addresses.

  "Mapping of Address and Port with Encapsulation (MAP)", Ole Troan,
  Wojciech Dec, Xing Li, Congxiao Bao, Satoru Matsushima, Tetsuya
  Murakami, Tom Taylor, 2013-08-12, <draft-ietf-softwire-map-08.txt>

      This document describes a mechanism for transporting IPv4 packets
      across an IPv6 network using IP encapsulation, and a generic
      mechanism for mapping between IPv6 addresses and IPv4 addresses and
      transport layer ports.

  "Softwire Mesh Management Information Base (MIB)", Yong Cui, Jiang Dong,
  Peng Wu, Mingwei Xu, Antti Yla-Jaaski, 2013-09-08,
  <draft-ietf-softwire-mesh-mib-04.txt>

      This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
      for use with network management protocols in the Internet community.
      In particular it defines objects for managing softwire mesh
      [RFC5565].

  "DS-Lite Management Information Base (MIB)", Yu Fu, Sheng Jiang, Jiang
  Dong, Yuchi Chen, 2013-08-28, <draft-ietf-softwire-dslite-mib-03.txt>

      This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
      using with network management protocols in the Internet community. In
      particular, it defines managed objects for DS-Lite.

  "DHCPv6 Options for configuration of Softwire Address and Port Mapped
  Clients", Tomek Mrugalski, Ole Troan, Wojciech Dec, Congxiao Bao, 
  leaf.yeh.sdo@gmail.com, Xiaohong Deng, 2013-10-15,
  <draft-ietf-softwire-map-dhcp-05.txt>

      This document specifies DHCPv6 options, termed Softwire46 options,
      for the provisioning of Softwire46 Customer Edge (CE) devices.
      Softwire46 is a collective term used to refer to architectures based
      on the notion of IPv4 Address+Port (A+P) for providing IPv4
      connectivity across an IPv6 network.

  "Mapping of Address and Port using Translation (MAP-T)", Xing Li,
  Congxiao Bao, Wojciech Dec, Ole Troan, Satoru Matsushima, Tetsuya
  Murakami, 2013-09-02, <draft-ietf-softwire-map-t-04.txt>

      This document specifies the "Mapping of Address and Port" double
      stateless IPv6-IPv4 Network Address Translation (NAT64) based
      solution, called MAP-T, for providing shared or non-shared IPv4
      address connectivity to and across an IPv6 network.

  "Mapping of Address and Port (MAP) - Deployment Considerations", Qiong,
  Maoke Chen, Gang Chen, Tina Tsou, Simon Perreault, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-softwire-map-deployment-03.txt>

      This document describes when and how an operator uses the technique
      of Mapping of Address and Port (MAP) for the IPv4 residual deployment
      in the IPv6-dominant domain.

  "Unified IPv4-in-IPv6 Softwire CPE", Mohamed Boucadair, Ian Farrer,
  Simon Perreault, Senthil Sivakumar, 2013-05-30,
  <draft-ietf-softwire-unified-cpe-01.txt>

      Transporting IPv4 packets encapsulated in IPv6 is a common solution
      to the problem of IPv4 service continuity over IPv6-only provider
      networks.  A number of differing functional approaches have been
      developed for this, each having their own specific characteristics.
      As these approaches share a similar functional architecture and use
      the same data plane mechanisms, this memo describes a specification
      whereby a single CPE can interwork with all of the standardized and
      proposed approaches to providing encapsulated IPv4 in IPv6 services.

  "Lightweight 4over6: An Extension to the DS-Lite Architecture", Yong
  Cui, Qiong, Mohamed Boucadair, Tina Tsou, Yiu Lee, Ian Farrer,
  2013-07-15, <draft-ietf-softwire-lw4over6-01.txt>

      DS-Lite [RFC6333] describes an architecture for transporting IPv4
      packets over an IPv6 network.  This document specifies an extension
      to DS-Lite called Lightweight 4over6 which moves the Network Address
      Translation function from the DS-Lite AFTR to the B4, removing the
      requirement for a Carrier Grade NAT function in the AFTR.  This
      reduces the amount of centralized state that must be held to a per-
      subscriber level.  In order to delegate the NAPT function and make
      IPv4 Address sharing possible, port-restricted IPv4 addresses are
      allocated to the B4s.

  "Definitions of Managed Objects for MAP-E", Yu Fu, Sheng Jiang, Bing
  Liu, Jiang Dong, Yuchi Chen, 2013-06-26,
  <draft-ietf-softwire-map-mib-00.txt>

      This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
      for using with network management protocols in the Internet
      community. In particular, it defines managed objects for MAP
      encapsulation mode.

  "RADIUS Attribute for MAP", Sheng Jiang, Yu Fu, Bing Liu, Peter Deacon,
  2013-06-26, <draft-ietf-softwire-map-radius-00.txt>

      Mapping of Address and Port (MAP) is a stateless mechanism for
      running IPv4 over IPv6-only infrastructure. It provides both IPv4 and
      IPv6 connectivity services simultaneously during the IPv4/IPv6 co-
      existing period. The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6
      (DHCPv6) MAP options has been defined to configure MAP Customer Edge
      (CE). However, in many networks, the configuration information may be
      stored in Authentication Authorization and Accounting (AAA) servers
      while user configuration is mainly from Broadband Network Gateway
      (BNG) through DHCPv6 protocol. This document defines a Remote
      Authentication Dial In User Service (RADIUS) attribute that carries
      MAP configuration information from AAA server to BNG. The MAP RADIUS
      attribute are designed following the simplify principle. It provides
      just enough information to form the correspondent DHCPv6 MAP option.

SPF Update (spfbis)
-------------------

  "Sender Policy Framework (SPF) for Authorizing Use of Domains in Email,
  Version 1", D. Kitterman, 2013-09-25, <draft-ietf-spfbis-4408bis-21.txt>

      Email on the Internet can be forged in a number of ways.  In
      particular, existing protocols place no restriction on what a sending
      host can use as the "MAIL FROM" of a message or the domain given on
      the SMTP HELO/EHLO commands.  This document describes version 1 of
      the Sender Policy Framework (SPF) protocol, whereby ADministrative
      Management Domains (ADMDs) can explicitly authorize the hosts that
      are allowed to use its domain names, and a receiving host can check
      such authorization.
      
      This document obsoletes RFC4408.

Secure Telephone Identity Revisited (stir)
------------------------------------------

  "Secure Telephone Identity Problem Statement", Jon Peterson, Henning
  Schulzrinne, Hannes Tschofenig, 2013-10-04,
  <draft-ietf-stir-problem-statement-00.txt>

      Over the past decade, Voice over IP (VoIP) systems based on SIP have
      replaced many traditional telephony deployments.  Interworking VoIP
      systems with the traditional telephone network has reduced the
      overall security of calling party number and Caller ID assurances by
      granting attackers new and inexpensive tools to impersonate or
      obscure calling party numbers when orchestrating bulk commercial
      calling schemes, hacking voicemail boxes or even circumventing multi-
      factor authentication systems trusted by banks.  Despite previous
      attempts to provide a secure assurance of the origin of SIP
      communications, we still lack of effective standards for identifying
      the calling party in a VoIP session.  This document examines the
      reasons why providing identity for telephone numbers on the Internet
      has proven so difficult, and shows how changes in the last decade may
      provide us with new strategies for attaching a secure identity to SIP
      sessions.

  "Secure Telephone Identity Threat Model", Jon Peterson, 2013-10-11,
  <draft-ietf-stir-threats-00.txt>

      As the Internet and the telephone network have become increasingly
      interconnected and interdependent, attackers can impersonate or
      obscure calling party numbers when orchestrating bulk commercial
      calling schemes, hacking voicemail boxes or even circumventing multi-
      factor authentication systems trusted by banks.  This document
      analyzes threats in the resulting system, enumerating actors,
      reviewing the capabilities available to and used by attackers, and
      describing scenarios in which attacks are launched.

STORage Maintenance (storm)
---------------------------

  "iSCSI Extensions for RDMA Specification", Mike Ko, Alexander Nezhinsky,
  2013-07-09, <draft-ietf-storm-iser-15.txt>

      iSCSI Extensions for Remote Direct Memory Access (RDMA) provides the
      RDMA data transfer capability to iSCSI by layering iSCSI on top of
      an RDMA-Capable Protocol.  An RDMA-Capable Protocol provides RDMA
      Read and Write services, which enable data to be transferred
      directly into SCSI I/O Buffers without intermediate data copies.
      This document describes the extensions to the iSCSI protocol to
      support RDMA services as provided by an RDMA-Capable Protocol.
      
      This document obsoletes RFC 5046.

  "Internet Small Computer Systems Interface (iSCSI) SCSI Features
  Update", Frederick Knight, Mallikarjun Chadalapaka, 2013-08-30,
  <draft-ietf-storm-iscsi-sam-09.txt,.pdf>

      Internet Small Computer Systems Interface (iSCSI) is a SCSI
      transport protocol that maps the SCSI family of protocols onto
      TCP/IP. The iSCSI protocol as specified in RFCxxx (and as
      previously specified by the combination of RFC 3720 and RFC
      5048) is based on the SAM-2 (SCSI Architecture Model - 2)
      version of the SCSI family of protocols. This document
      defines enhancements to the iSCSI protocol to support certain
      additional features of the SCSI protocol that were defined in
      SAM-3, SAM-4, and SAM-5.
      
      This document is a companion document to RFCxxx.
      
      --------------------------------------------------------
      RFC EDITORS NOTE: The above two references to RFCxxx should
      reference the RFC number assigned to the draft-ietf-storm-
      iscsi-cons-xx document, and this note should be removed.
      --------------------------------------------------------

  "iSCSI Protocol (Consolidated)", Mallikarjun Chadalapaka, Julian Satran,
  Kalman Meth, David Black, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-ietf-storm-iscsi-cons-10.txt,.pdf>

      This document describes a transport protocol for SCSI that works
      on top of TCP. The iSCSI protocol aims to be fully compliant with
      the standardized SCSI Architecture Model (SAM-2). RFC 3720
      defined the original iSCSI protocol. RFC 3721 discusses iSCSI
      Naming examples and discovery techniques. Subsequently, RFC 3980
      added an additional naming format to iSCSI protocol. RFC 4850
      followed up by adding a new public extension key to iSCSI. RFC
      5048 offered a number of clarifications and a few improvements and
      corrections to the original iSCSI protocol.
      
      
      This document obsoletes RFCs 3720, 3980, 4850 and 5048 by
      consolidating them into a single document and making additional
      updates to the consolidated specification. This document also
      updates RFC 3721. The text in this document thus supersedes the
      text in all the noted RFCs wherever there is a difference in
      semantics.

  "RDMA Protocol Extensions", Hemal Shah, Felix Marti, Wael Noureddine,
  Asgeir Eiriksson, Robert Sharp, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-ietf-storm-rdmap-ext-08.txt,.pdf>

      This document specifies extensions to the IETF Remote Direct Memory
      Access Protocol (RDMAP [RFC5040]). RDMAP provides read and write
      services directly to applications and enables data to be transferred
      directly into Upper Layer Protocol (ULP) Buffers without
      intermediate data copies. The extensions specified in this document
      provide the following capabilities and/or improvements: Atomic
      Operations and Immediate Data.

  "Definitions of Managed Objects for Internet Small Computer System
  Interface (iSCSI)", Mark Bakke, Prakash Venkatesen, 2013-04-02,
  <draft-ietf-storm-iscsimib-04.txt>

      This document defines a portion of the Management Information Base
      (MIB) for use with network management protocols. In particular, it
      defines objects for managing a client using the Internet Small
      Computer System Interface (iSCSI) protocol (SCSI over TCP).
      
      This document obsoletes RFC4544.

  "Securing Block Storage Protocols over IP: RFC 3723 Requirements Update
  for IPsec v3", David Black, Paul Koning, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-storm-ipsec-ips-update-04.txt>

      RFC 3723 specifies IPsec requirements for block storage protocols
      over IP (e.g., iSCSI) based on IPsec v2 (RFC 2401 and related RFCs);
      those requirements have subsequently been applied to remote direct
      data placement protocols, e.g., RDMAP.  This document updates RFC
      3723's IPsec requirements to IPsec v3 (RFC 4301 and related RFCs) and
      makes some changes to required algorithms based on developments in
      cryptography since RFC 3723 was published.
      
      [RFC Editor: The "Updates:" list above has been truncated by xml2rfc.
      The complete list is - Updates: 3720, 3723, 3821, 3822, 4018, 4172,
      4173, 4174, 5040, 5041, 5042, 5043, 5044, 5045, 5046, 5047, 5048 (if
      approved) ]

SIP-TO-XMPP (stox)
------------------

  "Interworking between the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and the
  Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP): Architecture,
  Addresses, and Error Handling", Peter Saint-Andre, Avshalom Houri, Joe
  Hildebrand, 2013-10-18, <draft-ietf-stox-core-07.txt>

      As a foundation for the definition of bidirectional protocol mappings
      between the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and the Extensible
      Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP), this document specifies the
      architectural assumptions underlying such mappings as well as the
      mapping of addresses and error conditions.

  "Interworking between the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and the
  Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP): Instant Messaging",
  Peter Saint-Andre, Avshalom Houri, Joe Hildebrand, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-ietf-stox-im-05.txt>

      This document defines a bidirectional protocol mapping for the
      exchange of single instant messages between the Session Initiation
      Protocol (SIP) and the Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol
      (XMPP).

  "Interworking between the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and the
  Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP): One-to-One Text Chat
  Sessions", Peter Saint-Andre, Salvatore Loreto, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-ietf-stox-chat-03.txt>

      This document defines a bidirectional protocol mapping for the
      exchange of instant messages in the context of a one-to-one chat
      session between a user of the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and a
      user of the Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP).
      Specifically for SIP text chat, this document specifies a mapping to
      the Message Session Relay Protocol (MSRP).

  "Interworking between the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and the
  Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP): Groupchat", Peter
  Saint-Andre, Saul Corretge, Salvatore Loreto, 2013-09-28,
  <draft-ietf-stox-groupchat-01.txt>

      This document defines a bidirectional protocol mapping for the
      exchange of instant messages in the context of a multiparty chat
      session among users of the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and
      users of the Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP).
      Specifically, this document defines a mapping between the SIP-based
      Message Session Relay Protocol (MSRP) and the XMPP Multi-User Chat
      (MUC) extension.

  "Interworking between the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and the
  Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP): Media Sessions",
  Peter Saint-Andre, Saul Corretge, Emil Ivov, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-ietf-stox-media-01.txt>

      This document defines a bi-directional protocol mapping for use by
      gateways that enable the exchange of media signalling messages
      between systems that implement the Jingle extensions to the
      Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP) and those that
      implement the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP).

  "Interworking between the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and the
  Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP): Presence", Peter
  Saint-Andre, Avshalom Houri, Joe Hildebrand, 2013-10-18,
  <draft-ietf-stox-presence-06.txt>

      This document defines a bi-directional protocol mapping for the
      exchange of presence information between the Session Initiation
      Protocol (SIP) and the Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol
      (XMPP).

Sip Traversal Required for Applications to Work (straw)
-------------------------------------------------------

  "A Taxonomy of Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Back-to-Back User
  Agents", Hadriel Kaplan, Victor Pascual, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-straw-b2bua-taxonomy-03.txt>

      In many SIP deployments, SIP entities exist in the SIP signaling path
      between the originating and final terminating endpoints, which go
      beyond the definition of a SIP Proxy, performing functions not
      defined in standards-track RFCs.  The only term for such devices
      provided in [RFC3261] is for a Back-to-Back User Agent (B2BUA), which
      is defined as the logical concatenation of a SIP User Agent Server
      (UAS) and User Agent Client (UAC).
      
      There are numerous types of SIP Back-to-Back User Agents, performing
      different roles in different ways.  For Example IP-PBXs, Session
      Border Controllers (SBC) [RFC5853] and Application Servers (AS).
      This document identifies several common Back-to-Back User Agent
      roles, in order to provide taxonomy other documents can use and
      reference.

  "Loop Detection Mechanisms for Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)
  Back-to- Back User Agents (B2BUAs)", Hadriel Kaplan, Victor Pascual,
  2013-09-07, <draft-ietf-straw-b2bua-loop-detection-02.txt>

      SIP Back-to-Back User Agents (B2BUAs) can cause unending SIP request
      routing loops because, as User Agent Clients, they can generate SIP
      requests with new Max-Forwards values.  This document discusses the
      difficulties associated with loop detection for B2BUAs, and
      requirements for them to prevent infinite loops.

  "A Media-based Traceroute Function for the Session Initiation Protocol
  (SIP)", Hadriel Kaplan, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-straw-sip-traceroute-01.txt>

      SIP already provides the ability to perform hop-by-hop traceroute
      for SIP messages using the Max-Forwards header field, in order to
      determine the reachability path of requests to a target.  A
      mechanism for media-loopback calls has also been defined separately,
      which enables test calls to be generated which result in media being
      looped back to the originator.  This document describes a means of
      performing hop-by-hop traceroute-style test calls using the media-
      loopback mechanism, in order to test the media path when SIP
      sessions go through media-relaying B2BUAs.

Sunsetting IPv4 (sunset4)
-------------------------

  "Gap Analysis for IPv4 Sunset", Jean-Philippe Dionne, Simon Perreault,
  Tina Tsou, Cathy Zhou, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-ietf-sunset4-gapanalysis-03.txt>

      Sunsetting IPv4 refers to the process of turning off IPv4
      definitively.  It can be seen as the final phase of the migration to
      IPv6.  This memo enumerates difficulties arising when sunsetting
      IPv4, and identifies the gaps requiring additional work.

  "Turning off IPv4 Using DHCPv6 or Router Advertisements", Simon
  Perreault, Wesley George, Tina Tsou, Tianle Yang, 2013-09-24,
  <draft-ietf-sunset4-noipv4-00.txt>

      This memo defines a new DHCPv6 option and a new Router Advertisement
      option for indicating to a dual-stack host or router that IPv4 is to
      be turned off.

TCP Maintenance and Minor Extensions (tcpm)
-------------------------------------------

  "TCP Extensions for High Performance", David Borman, Robert Braden, Van
  Jacobson, Richard Scheffenegger, 2013-08-06,
  <draft-ietf-tcpm-1323bis-15.txt>

      This document specifies a set of TCP extensions to improve
      performance over paths with a large bandwidth * delay product and to
      provide reliable operation over very high-speed paths.  It defines
      TCP options for scaled windows and timestamps.  The timestamps are
      used for two distinct mechanisms, RTTM (Round Trip Time Measurement)
      and PAWS (Protection Against Wrapped Sequences).
      
      This document obsoletes RFC 1323 and describes changes from it.

  "TCP Fast Open", Yuchung Cheng, Jerry Chu, Sivasankar Radhakrishnan,
  Arvind Jain, 2013-10-14, <draft-ietf-tcpm-fastopen-05.txt>

      TCP Fast Open (TFO) allows data to be carried in the SYN and SYN-ACK
      packets and consumed by the receiving end during the initial
      connection handshake, thus saving up to one full round trip time
      (RTT) compared to the standard TCP, which requires a three-way
      handshake (3WHS) to complete before data can be exchanged. However
      TFO deviates from the standard TCP semantics; the data in the SYN
      could be replayed to an application in some rare circumstances.
      Applications should not use TFO unless they can tolerate this issue
      detailed in the Applicability section.
      
      Terminology

  "Problem Statement and Requirements for a More Accurate ECN Feedback",
  Mirja Kuehlewind, Richard Scheffenegger, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-tcpm-accecn-reqs-04.txt>

      Explicit Congestion Notification (ECN) is an IP/TCP mechanism where
      network nodes can mark IP packets instead of dropping them to
      indicate congestion to the end-points.  An ECN-capable receiver will
      feedback this information to the sender.  ECN is specified for TCP in
      such a way that only one feedback signal can be transmitted per
      Round-Trip Time (RTT).  Recently, new TCP mechanisms like ConEx or
      DCTCP need more accurate ECN feedback information in the case where
      more than one marking is received in one RTT.  This document
      specifies requirements for an update to the TCP protocol to provide
      more accurate ECN feedback than one signal per RTT.

  "Updating TCP to support Rate-Limited Traffic", Gorry Fairhurst, Arjuna
  Sathiaseelan, Raffaello Secchi, 2013-10-09,
  <draft-ietf-tcpm-newcwv-03.txt>

      This document proposes an update to RFC 5681 to address issues that
      arise when TCP is used to support traffic that exhibits periods where
      the sending rate is limited by the application rather than the
      congestion window.  It updates TCP to allow a TCP sender to restart
      quickly following either an idle or rate-limited interval.  This
      method is expected to benefit applications that send rate-limited
      traffic using TCP, while also providing an appropriate response if
      congestion is experienced.
      
      It also evaluates the Experimental specification of TCP Congestion
      Window Validation, CWV, defined in RFC 2861, and concludes that RFC
      2861 sought to address important issues, but failed to deliver a
      widely used solution.  This document therefore recommends that the
      status of RFC 2861 is moved from Experimental to Historic, and that
      it is replaced by the current specification.
      
      NOTE: The standards status of this WG document is under review for
      consideration as either Experimental (EXP) or Proposed Standard (PS).
      This decision will be made later as the document is finalised.

  "TCP and SCTP RTO Restart", Per Hurtig, Anna Brunstrom, Andreas Petlund,
  Michael Welzl, 2013-09-17, <draft-ietf-tcpm-rtorestart-01.txt>

      This document describes a modified algorithm for managing the TCP and
      SCTP retransmission timers that provides faster loss recovery when
      there is a small amount of outstanding data for a connection.  The
      modification allows the transport to restart its retransmission timer
      more aggressively in situations where fast retransmit cannot be used.
      This enables faster loss detection and recovery for connections that
      are short-lived or application-limited.

  "A Roadmap for Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) Specification
  Documents", Martin Duke, Robert Braden, Wesley Eddy, Ethan Blanton,
  Alexander Zimmermann, 2013-08-09,
  <draft-ietf-tcpm-tcp-rfc4614bis-00.txt,.pdf>

      This document contains a "roadmap" to the Requests for Comments (RFC)
      documents relating to the Internet's Transmission Control Protocol
      (TCP).  This roadmap provides a brief summary of the documents
      defining TCP and various TCP extensions that have accumulated in the
      RFC series.  This serves as a guide and quick reference for both TCP
      implementers and other parties who desire information contained in
      the TCP-related RFCs.

Timing over IP Connection and Transfer of Clock (tictoc)
--------------------------------------------------------

  "Transporting Timing messages over MPLS Networks", Shahram Davari, Amit
  Oren, Manav Bhatia, Peter Roberts, Laurent Montini, 2013-06-14,
  <draft-ietf-tictoc-1588overmpls-05.txt>

      This document defines the method for transporting Timing messages
      such as PTP and NTP over an MPLS network.  The method allows for the
      easy identification of these PDUs at the port level to allow for port
      level processing of these PDUs in both LERs and LSRs.
      
      The basic idea is to transport Timing messages inside dedicated MPLS
      LSPs.  These LSPs only carry Timing messages and possibly Control and
      Management packets, but they do not carry customer traffic.
      
      Two methods for transporting Timing messages over MPLS are defined.
      The first method is to transport Timing messages directly over the
      dedicated MPLS LSP via UDP/IP encapsulation, which is suitable for
      MPLS networks.  The second method is to transport Timing messages
      inside a PW via Ethernet encapsulation.

  "Precision Time Protocol Version 2 (PTPv2) Management Information Base",
  Vinay Shankarkumar, Laurent Montini, Tim Frost, Greg Dowd, 2013-02-25,
  <draft-ietf-tictoc-ptp-mib-05.txt>

      This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
      for use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.
      In particular, it defines objects for managing networks using
      Precision Time Protocol, specified in [IEEE 1588-2008].
      
      This memo specifies a MIB module in a manner that is both compliant
      to the SNMPv2 SMI, and semantically identical to the peer SNMPv1
      definitions.

  "Security Requirements of Time Protocols in Packet Switched Networks",
  Tal Mizrahi, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-tictoc-security-requirements-06.txt>

      As time and frequency distribution protocols are becoming
      increasingly common and widely deployed, concern about their exposure
      to various security threats is increasing. This document defines a
      set of security requirements for time protocols, focusing on the
      Precision Time Protocol (PTP) and the Network Time Protocol (NTP).
      This document also discusses the security impacts of time protocol
      practices, the performance implications of external security
      practices on time protocols and the dependencies between other
      security services and time synchronization.

  "Enterprise Profile for the Precision Time Protocol With Mixed Multicast
  and Unicast Messages", Doug Arnold, Heiko Gerstung, 2013-07-07,
  <draft-ietf-tictoc-ptp-enterprise-profile-00.txt>

      This document describes a profile for the use of the Precision
      Time Protocol in an IPV4 or IPv6 Enterprise information system
      environment.  The profile uses the End to End Delay Measurement
      Mechanism, allows both multicast and unicast Delay Request and Delay
      Response Messages.

Transport Layer Security (tls)
------------------------------

  "Transport Layer Security (TLS) Cached Information Extension", Stefan
  Santesson, Hannes Tschofenig, 2013-10-17,
  <draft-ietf-tls-cached-info-15.txt>

      Transport Layer Security (TLS) handshakes often include fairly static
      information, such as the server certificate and a list of trusted
      Certification Authorities (CAs).  This information can be of
      considerable size, particularly if the server certificate is bundled
      with a complete certificate path (including all intermediary
      certificates up to the trust anchor public key).
      
      This document defines an extension that omits the exchange of already
      available information.  The TLS client informs a server of cached
      information, for example from a previous TLS handshake, allowing the
      server to omit the already available information.

  "Using Raw Public Keys in Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram
  Transport Layer Security (DTLS)", Paul Wouters, Hannes Tschofenig, John
  Gilmore, Samuel Weiler, Tero Kivinen, 2013-10-19,
  <draft-ietf-tls-oob-pubkey-10.txt>

      This document specifies a new certificate type and two TLS extensions
      for exchanging raw public keys in Transport Layer Security (TLS) and
      Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) for use with out-of-band
      public key validation.

  "Secure Password Ciphersuites for Transport Layer Security (TLS)", Dan
  Harkins, Dave Halasz, 2013-08-15, <draft-ietf-tls-pwd-01.txt>

      This memo defines several new ciphersuites for the Transport Layer
      Security (TLS) protocol to support certificate-less, secure
      authentication using only a simple, low-entropy, password.  The
      ciphersuites are all based on an authentication and key exchange
      protocol that is resistant to off-line dictionary attack.

  "Transport Layer Security (TLS) Application Layer Protocol Negotiation
  Extension", Stephan Friedl, Andrey Popov, Adam Langley, Stephan Emile,
  2013-10-15, <draft-ietf-tls-applayerprotoneg-03.txt>

      This document describes a Transport Layer Security (TLS) extension
      for application layer protocol negotiation within the TLS handshake.
      For instances in which the TLS connection is established over a well
      known TCP/IP port not associated with the desired application layer
      protocol, this extension allows the application layer to negotiate
      which protocol will be used within the TLS session.

Transparent Interconnection of Lots of Links (trill)
----------------------------------------------------

  "TRILL: Campus Label and Priority Regions", Radia Perlman, Anil
  Rijhsinghani, Donald Eastlake, Ayan Banerjee, Dinesh Dutt, 2013-07-04,
  <draft-ietf-trill-rbridge-vlan-mapping-09.txt>

      Within a TRILL campus, the data label (VLAN or Fine Grained Label)
      and priority of TRILL encapsulated frames is preserved. However, in
      some cases it may be desired that data label and/or priority be
      mapped at the boundary between regions of such a campus. This
      document describes an optional TRILL switch feature to provide this
      function.

  "TRILL: RBridge Channel Support", Donald Eastlake, Vishwas Manral, Li
  Yizhou, Sam Aldrin, David Ward, 2012-07-14,
  <draft-ietf-trill-rbridge-channel-08.txt>

      This document specifies a general channel mechanism for sending
      messages, such as BFD (Bidirectional Forwarding Detection) messages,
      between RBridges (Routing Bridges) and between RBridges and end
      stations in an RBridge campus through extensions to the TRILL
      (TRansparent Interconnection of Lots of Links) protocol.

  "TRILL (Transparent Interconnetion of Lots of Links): Bidirectional
  Forwarding Detection (BFD) Support", Vishwas Manral, Donald Eastlake,
  David Ward, Ayan Banerjee, 2012-07-16,
  <draft-ietf-trill-rbridge-bfd-07.txt>

      This document specifies use of the BFD (Bidirectional Forwarding
      Detection) protocol in RBridge campuses based on the Rbridge Channel
      extension to the the TRILL (TRansparent Interconnection of Lots of
      Links) protocol.
      
      BFD is a widely deployed OAM (Operations, Administration, and
      Maintenance) mechanism in IP and MPLS (Multi Protocol Label
      Switching) networks, using UDP and ACH (Associated Channel Header)
      encapsulation respectively.  This document specifies the BFD
      encapsulation over TRILL.

  "TRILL: Header Extension", Donald Eastlake, Anoop Ghanwani, Vishwas
  Manral, Li Yizhou, Caitlin Bestler, 2012-06-20,
  <draft-ietf-trill-rbridge-extension-05.txt>

      The IETF TRILL (Transparent Interconnection of Lots of Links) base
      protocol specifies minimal hooks to safely support TRILL Header
      extensions. This document specifies an initial extension providing
      additional flag bits and specifies some of those bits. It updates RFC
      6325.

  "TRILL (Transparent Interconnection of Lots of Links): Fine-Grained
  Labeling", Donald Eastlake, Mingui Zhang, Puneet Agarwal, Radia Perlman,
  Dinesh Dutt, 2013-05-17, <draft-ietf-trill-fine-labeling-07.txt>

      The IETF has standardized TRILL (Transparent Interconnection of Lots
      of Links), a protocol for least cost transparent frame routing in
      multi-hop networks with arbitrary topologies and link technologies,
      using link-state routing and a hop count. The TRILL base protocol
      standard supports labeling of TRILL data with up to 4K IDs. However,
      there are applications that require a larger number of labels
      providing configurable isolation of data. This document updates RFC
      6325 by specifying optional extensions to the TRILL base protocol to
      safely accomplish this. These extensions, called fine grained
      labeling, are primarily intended for use in large Data Centers, those
      with >4K users requiring configurable data isolation from each other.

  "TRILL: Clarifications, Corrections, and Updates", Donald Eastlake,
  Mingui Zhang, Anoop Ghanwani, Vishwas Manral, Ayan Banerjee, 2012-07-30,
  <draft-ietf-trill-clear-correct-06.txt>

      The IETF TRILL (TRansparent Interconnection of Lots of Links)
      protocol provides least cost pair-wise data forwarding without
      configuration in multi-hop networks with arbitrary topology and link
      technology, safe forwarding even during periods of temporary loops,
      and support for multipathing of both unicast and multicast traffic.
      TRILL accomplishes this by using IS-IS (Intermediate System to
      Intermediate System) link state routing and by encapsulating traffic
      using a header that includes a hop count. Since the TRILL base
      protocol was approved in March 2010, active development of TRILL has
      revealed errata in the original RFC 6325 and some cases that could
      use clarifications or updates.
      
      RFC 6327 and RFC 6439 provide clarifications and updates with respect
      to Adjacency and Appointed Forwarders. This document provides other
      known clarifications, corrections, and updates to RFC 6325, RFC 6327,
      and RFC 6439.

  "Coordinated Multicast Trees (CMT) for TRILL", Tissa Senevirathne,
  Janardhanan Pathangi, Jon Hudson, 2013-10-02,
  <draft-ietf-trill-cmt-02.txt>

      TRILL facilitates loop free connectivity to non-TRILL legacy
      networks via choice of an Appointed Forwarder for a set of VLANs.
      Appointed Forwarder provides load sharing based on VLAN with an
      active-standby model. Mission critical operations such as High
      Performance Data Centers require active-active load sharing model.
      Active-Active load sharing model can be accomplished by representing
      any given non-TRILL legacy network with a single virtual RBridge.
      Virtual representation of the non-TRILL legacy network with a single
      RBridge poses serious challenges in multi-destination RPF (Reverse
      Path Forwarding) check calculations. This document specifies
      required enhancements to build Coordinated Multicast Trees (CMT)
      within the TRILL campus to solve related RPF issues. CMT provides
      flexibility to RBridges in selecting  desired path of association to
      a given TRILL multi-destination distribution tree.

  "TRILL (Transparent Interconnection of Lots of Links): ESADI (End
  Station Address Distribution Information) Protocol", ZTE Corporation,
  fangwei hu, Radia Perlman, Donald Eastlake, Olen Stokes, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-ietf-trill-esadi-03.txt>

      The IETF TRILL (Transparent Interconnection of Lots of Links)
      protocol provides least cost pair-wise data forwarding without
      configuration in multi-hop networks with arbitrary topologies and
      link technologies.  TRILL supports multi-pathing of both unicast and
      multicast traffic.  Devices that implement the TRILL protocol are
      called TRILL Switches or RBridges (Routing Bridges).
      
      ESADI (End Station Address Distribution Information) is an optional
      protocol by which a TRILL switch can communicate, in a Data Label
      (VLAN or Fine Grained Label) scoped way, end station addresses and
      other information to TRILL switches participating in ESADI for the
      relevant Data Label.  This document updates RFC 6325, specifically
      the documentation of the ESADI protocol.

  "TRILL (Transparent Interconnection of Lots of Links): Edge Directory
  Assistance Framework", Linda Dunbar, Donald Eastlake, Radia Perlman,
  Igor Gashinsky, 2013-08-11,
  <draft-ietf-trill-directory-framework-07.txt>

      Edge TRILL (Transparent Interconnection of Lots of Links) switches
      currently learn the mapping between MAC addresses and their egress
      TRILL switch by observing the data packets they ingress or egress or
      by the TRILL ESADI (End Station Address Distribution Information)
      protocol. When an ingress TRILL switch receives a data frame whose
      destination address (MAC&Label) that switch does not know, the data
      frame is flooded within the frame's Data Label across the TRILL
      campus.
      
      This document describes the framework for using directory services to
      assist edge TRILL switches in reducing multi-destination frames,
      particularly unknown unicast frames flooding, and ARP/ND, thus
      improving TRILL network scalability and security.

  "TRILL OAM Framework", Samer Salam, Tissa Senevirathne, Sam Aldrin,
  Donald Eastlake, 2013-09-19, <draft-ietf-trill-oam-framework-03.txt>

      This document specifies a reference framework for Operations,
      Administration and Maintenance (OAM) in TRILL networks. The focus of
      the document is on the fault and performance management aspects of
      TRILL OAM.

  "TRILL: Adjacency", Donald Eastlake, Radia Perlman, Anoop Ghanwani,
  Howard Yang, Vishwas Manral, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-trill-rfc6327bis-02.txt>

      The IETF TRILL (TRansparent Interconnection of Lots of Links)
      protocol supports arbitrary link technologies between TRILL switches
      including point-to-point links and multi-access LAN (Local Area
      Network) links that can have multiple TRILL switches and end stations
      attached. TRILL uses IS-IS (Intermediate System to Intermediate
      System) routing. This document specifies the establishment,
      reporting, and termination of IS-IS adjacency between TRILL switches,
      also known as RBridges. It also concerns four other link-local
      aspects of TRILL: Designated RBridge (DRB) selection, MTU (Maximum
      Transmission Unit) testing, pseudonode creation, and BFD (Bi-
      Directional Forwarding Detection) session bootstrapping in connection
      with adjacency. State diagrams are included where appropriate.  This
      document obsoletes RFC 6327 and updates RFC 6325.

  "TRILL Fault Management", Tissa Senevirathne, Norman Finn, Samer Salam,
  Deepak Kumar, Donald Eastlake, Sam Aldrin, Li Yizhou, 2013-07-11,
  <draft-ietf-trill-oam-fm-00.txt>

      This document specifies TRILL OAM Fault Management. Methods in
      this document follow the IEEE 802.1 CFM framework and reuse OAM
      tools where possible. Additional messages and TLVs are defined
      for TRILL specific applications or where a different set of
      information is required other than IEEE 802.1 CFM.

  "Transport of TRILL Using Pseudowires", Lucy Yong, Donald Eastlake, Sam
  Aldrin, Jon Hudson, 2013-10-20, <draft-ietf-trill-o-pw-01.txt>

      This document specifies how to interconnect a pair of TRILL
      (Transparent Interconnection of Lots of Links) switch ports using
      pseudowires under existing TRILL and PWE3 (Pseudowire Emulation End-
      to-End) standards.

  "Loss and Delay Measurement in Transparent Interconnection of Lots of
  Links (TRILL)", Tal Mizrahi, Tissa Senevirathne, Samer Salam, Deepak
  Kumar, Donald Eastlake, 2013-10-10, <draft-ietf-trill-loss-delay-00.txt>

      Performance Monitoring (PM) is a key aspect of Operations,
      Administration and Maintenance (OAM). It allows network operators to
      verify the Service Level Agreement (SLA) provided to customers, and
      to detect network anomalies. This document specifies mechanisms for
      Loss Measurement and Delay Measurement in TRILL networks.

Transport Area (tsv)
--------------------

  "TWAMP Burst Rate Measurement Features", Al Morton, Len Ciavattone,
  2013-08-20, <draft-morton-ippm-twamp-rate-04.txt>

      This memo describes two rate-measurement features for the core
      specification of TWAMP - the Two-Way Active Measurement Protocol: an
      optional capability where the reflector host responds with a
      controlled burst of test-session packets (instead of a single
      packet), and an optional test mode that requires the responder to
      measure a burst of test packets and communicate the results in
      truncated packet(s).  Both features add the ability to control packet
      size in the tested direction, enabling asymmetrical packet size
      testing.  This draft defines the modes in terms of traditional UDP
      test packets.  Use of TCP transport instead of UDP may be desirable,
      but is deferred to other work.

  "New Performance Metrics Composition Framework for Multiparty Services",
  Tiziano Ionta, 2013-06-04,
  <draft-ionta-new-multiparty-metrics-framework-02.txt>

      One of the best chances for a Service Provider to face the complex
      growth of IP Services, and their challenging requirements/SLAs along
      the Core network, is to enrich the current Performance metrics - mainly
      derived from a "Network-Oriented point of view", and therefore a
      general perspective, not focused on specific services - with some more
      Performance factors, so to include a "Service-Oriented point of view",
      more centred on the particular kind of service, with its own
      characteristics in terms of protocol, application, manageability, and
      so on.
      Almost nothing about this new approach has been standardized yet for
      the core network.
      To achieve the above goal, and starting from the one-to-group
      performance metrics outlined in RFC 5644 [RFC5644], a new metrics
      composition/aggregation framework is proposed in this memo, where the
      main focus is on multiparty communications (e.g. video providers,
      online biding, online stock market, etc.).
      Finally this memo is tuned to RFC 6390 [RFC6390] in terms of scopes,
      framework concepts, and need to widen the current performance metrics
      depending on the application, service etc.

  "CDNI Footprint and Capabilities Advertisement using ALTO", Jan Seedorf,
  Yang Yang, 2013-10-21, <draft-seedorf-cdni-request-routing-alto-05.txt>

      Network Service Providers (NSPs) are currently considering to deploy
      Content Delivery Networks (CDNs) within their networks.  As a
      consequence of this development, there is a need for interconnecting
      these local CDNs.  The necessary interfaces for inter-connecting CDNs
      are currently being defined in the Content Delivery Networks
      Interconnection (CDNI) WG.  This document focuses on the CDNI
      Footprint & Capabilities Advertisement interface (FCI).
      Specifically, this document outlines how the solutions currently
      being defined in the Application Layer Traffic Optimization (ALTO) WG
      can facilitate Footprint & Capabilities Advertisement in a CDNI
      context, i.e. how the CDNI FCI can be realised with the ALTO
      protocol.  Concrete examples of how ALTO can be integrated within
      CDNI request routing and in particular in the process of selecting a
      downstream CDN are given.  The examples in this document are based on
      the use cases and examples currently being discussed in the CDNI WG.

  "Spatial Aggregation Metrics for Multipary Services", Tiziano Ionta,
  2013-06-04, <draft-ionta-spatial-metrics-multiparty-services-02.txt>

      One of the best chances for a Service Provider to face the complex
      growth of IP Services, and their challenging requirements/SLAs along
      the Core network, is to enrich the current Performance metrics - mainly
      derived from a Network-oriented point of view, and therefore a general
      perspective, not focused on specific services - with some more
      Performance factors, so to include a Service-oriented point of view,
      more centred on the particular kind of service, with its own
      characteristics in terms of protocol, application, manageability,
      and so on.
      To achieve the above goal, and starting from the one-to-group
      performance metrics outlined in RFC 5644 [RFC5644], an effort to a
      deeper analysis and definition of spatial aggregation metrics (as a
      part of the framework for metric composition defined in RFC 5835
      [RFC5835])is proposed in this memo, where the main focus is on
      multiparty communications (e.g. video providers, online biding,
      online stock market, etc.).
      This memo lends itself to passive measurement as well as active
      measurement.
      Finally this memo is tuned to RFC 6390 [RFC6390] in terms of scopes,
      framework concepts, and need to widen the current performance metrics
      depending on the application, service etc.

  "DiffServ interconnection classes and practice", Ruediger Geib,
  2013-10-18, <draft-geib-tsvwg-diffserv-intercon-04.txt>

      This document proposes a limited set of interconnection QoS PHBs and
      PHB groups.  It further introduces some DiffServ deployment aspects.
      The proposals made here should be integrated into a revised version
      of RFC5127.

  "Adobe's Secure Real-Time Media Flow Protocol", Michael Thornburgh,
  2013-07-10, <draft-thornburgh-adobe-rtmfp-10.txt>

      This memo describes Adobe's Secure Real-Time Media Flow Protocol
      (RTMFP), an endpoint-to-endpoint communication protocol designed to
      securely transport parallel flows of real-time video, audio, and data
      messages, as well as bulk data, over IP networks.  RTMFP has features
      making it effective for peer-to-peer (P2P) as well as client-server
      communications, even when Network Address Translators (NATs) are
      used.

  "PIE: A Lightweight Control Scheme To Address the Bufferbloat Problem",
  Rong Pan, Preethi Natarajan, Chiara Piglione, Mythili Prabhu,
  2013-06-03, <draft-pan-aqm-pie-00.txt>

      Bufferbloat is a phenomenon where excess buffers in the network cause
      high latency and jitter. As more and more interactive applications
      (e.g. voice over IP, real time video streaming and financial
      transactions) run in the Internet, high latency and jitter degrade
      application performance. There is a pressing need to design
      intelligent queue management schemes that can control latency and
      jitter; and hence provide desirable quality of service to users.
      
      We present here a lightweight design, PIE(Proportional Integral
      controller Enhanced) that can effectively control the average
      queueing latency to a target value. Simulation results, theoretical
      analysis and Linux testbed results have shown that PIE can ensure low
      latency and achieve high link utilization under various congestion
      situations. The design does not require per-packet timestamp, so it
      incurs very small overhead and is simple enough to implement in both
      hardware and software.

  "TCP Instant Recovery: Incorporating Forward Error Correction in TCP",
  Tobias Flach, Nandita Dukkipati, Yuchung Cheng, Barath Raghavan,
  2013-07-14, <draft-flach-tcpm-fec-00.txt>

      Ordinary TCP loss recovery takes at least one round-trip time and as
      such can increase application-perceived latency, especially for short
      flows such as Web transactions.  TCP Instant Recovery (TCP-IR) is an
      experimental algorithm that allows a receiving end to recover lost
      packets without retransmissions, thus potentially saving at least one
      full round-trip time compared to standard TCP.  TCP-IR achieves this
      by judiciously injecting encoded data segments within a TCP stream.
      This document describes the TCP-IR algorithm at the sending and
      receiving ends, along with the required protocol changes.

Transport Area Working Group (tsvwg)
------------------------------------

  "Byte and Packet Congestion Notification", Bob Briscoe, Jukka Manner,
  2013-08-01, <draft-ietf-tsvwg-byte-pkt-congest-11.txt>

      This document provides recommendations of best current practice for
      dropping or marking packets using any active queue management (AQM)
      algorithm, including random early detection (RED), BLUE, pre-
      congestion notification (PCN) and newer schemes such as CoDel and
      PIE.  We give three strong recommendations: (1) packet size should be
      taken into account when transports detect and respond to congestion
      indications, (2) packet size should not be taken into account when
      network equipment creates congestion signals (marking, dropping), and
      therefore (3) in the specific case of RED, the byte-mode packet drop
      variant that drops fewer small packets should not be used.  This memo
      updates RFC 2309 to deprecate deliberate preferential treatment of
      small packets in AQM algorithms.

  "Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) Network Address Translation
  Support", Randall Stewart, Michael Tuexen, Irene Ruengeler, 2013-09-09,
  <draft-ietf-tsvwg-natsupp-06.txt>

      Stream Control Transmission Protocol [RFC4960] provides a reliable
      communications channel between two end-hosts in many ways similar to
      TCP [RFC0793].  With the widespread deployment of Network Address
      Translators (NAT), specialized code has been added to NAT for TCP
      that allows multiple hosts to reside behind a NAT and yet use only a
      single globally unique IPv4 address, even when two hosts (behind a
      NAT) choose the same port numbers for their connection.  This
      additional code is sometimes classified as Network Address and Port
      Translation (NAPT).  To date, specialized code for SCTP has not yet
      been added to most NATs so that only pure NAT is available.  The end
      result of this is that only one SCTP capable host can be behind a
      NAT.
      
      This document describes the protocol extensions required for the SCTP
      endpoints to help NATs provide similar features of NAPT in the
      single-point and multi-point traversal scenario.

  "Generic Aggregation of Resource ReSerVation Protocol (RSVP) for IPv4
  And IPv6 Reservations over PCN domains", Georgios Karagiannis, Anurag
  Bhargava, 2013-10-20, <draft-ietf-tsvwg-rsvp-pcn-07.txt>

      This document specifies extensions to Generic Aggregated RSVP
      [RFC4860] for support of the PCN Controlled Load (CL) and Single
      Marking (SM) edge behaviors over a Diffserv cloud using Pre-
      Congestion Notification.

  "Recommendations for Transport Port Uses", Joseph Touch, 2013-07-15,
  <draft-ietf-tsvwg-port-use-02.txt>

      This document provides recommendations to application and service
      designers on how to use the transport protocol port number space to
      help in its preservation.

  "Quick Failover Algorithm in SCTP", Yoshifumi Nishida, Preethi
  Natarajan, Armando Caro, Paul Amer, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-tsvwg-sctp-failover-02.txt>

      One of the major advantages in SCTP is supporting multi-homing
      communication.  If a multi-homed end-point has redundant network
      connections, SCTP sessions can have a good chance to survive from
      network failures by migrating inactive network to active one.
      However, if we follow the SCTP standard, there can be significant
      delay for the network migration.  During this migration period, SCTP
      cannot transmit much data to the destination.  This issue drastically
      impairs the usability of SCTP in some situations.  This memo
      describes the issue of SCTP failover mechanism and discuss its
      solutions which require minimal modification to the current standard.

  "DTLS Encapsulation of SCTP Packets", Michael Tuexen, Randall Stewart,
  Randell Jesup, Salvatore Loreto, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-ietf-tsvwg-sctp-dtls-encaps-02.txt>

      The Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) is a transport
      protocol originally defined to run on top of the network protocols
      IPv4 or IPv6.  This document specifies how SCTP can be used on top of
      the Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) protocol.

  "SACK-IMMEDIATELY Extension for the Stream Control Transmission
  Protocol", Michael Tuexen, Irene Ruengeler, Randall Stewart, 2013-08-28,
  <draft-ietf-tsvwg-sctp-sack-immediately-04.txt>

      This document updates RFC 4960 by defining a method for the sender of
      a DATA chunk to indicate that the corresponding SACK chunk should be
      sent back immediately and not be delayed.  It is done by specifying a
      bit in the DATA chunk header, called the I-bit, which can get set
      either by the SCTP implementation or by the application using an SCTP
      stack.  Since unknown flags in chunk headers are ignored by SCTP
      implementations, this extension does not introduce any
      interoperability problems.

  "Resource Reservation Protocol (RSVP) Application-ID Profiles for Voice
  and Video Streams", James Polk, Subha Dhesikan, 2013-09-19,
  <draft-ietf-tsvwg-rsvp-app-id-vv-profiles-01.txt>

      RFC 2872 defines an Resource Reservation Protocol (RSVP) object for
      application identifiers.  This document uses that App-ID and gives
      implementers specific guidelines for differing voice and video
      stream identifications to nodes along a reservation path, creating
      specific profiles for voice and video session identification.

Uniform Resource Names, Revised (urnbis)
----------------------------------------

  "Uniform Resource Name (URN) Syntax", Peter Saint-Andre, 2013-08-02,
  <draft-ietf-urnbis-rfc2141bis-urn-06.txt>

      A Uniform Resource Name (URN) is a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI)
      that is intended to serve as a persistent, location-independent
      resource identifier.  This document defines the canonical syntax for
      URIs under the "urn" scheme, guidelines for URN namespaces,
      requirements for URN presentation and transmission, and methods for
      determining URN equivalence.  This document obsoletes RFC 2141.

  "Uniform Resource Name (URN) Namespace Definition Mechanisms", Peter
  Saint-Andre, Leslie Daigle, Dirk-Willem van Gulik, Renato Iannella,
  Patrick Faltstrom, 2013-07-12,
  <draft-ietf-urnbis-rfc3406bis-urn-ns-reg-06.txt>

      This document supplements the Uniform Resource Name (URN) syntax
      specification by defining the concept of a URN namespace, as well as
      mechanisms for defining and registering such namespaces.  This
      document obsoletes RFC 3406.

  "Uniform Resource Name (URN) Namespace Registration Transition", John
  Klensin, Juna Hakala, 2013-08-29,
  <draft-ietf-urnbis-ns-reg-transition-00.txt>

      The original registration procedure for formal Uniform Resource Name
      (URN) namespaces required IETF Consensus.  That requirement
      discouraged some registrations and increased the risk for problems
      that could occur as a result.  The requirements have now been changed
      in [[RFC 3406bis]] to adopt a different model.  This document
      specifies IANA instructions to adapt selected existing registrations
      to the new model.  It also obsoletes some previous RFCs to eliminate
      any ambiguity about the status of new templates and updated
      registrations.

IPv6 Operations (v6ops)
-----------------------

  "IPv6 Multihoming without Network Address Translation", Ole Troan, David
  Miles, Satoru Matsushima, Tadahisa Okimoto, Dan Wing, 2013-03-18,
  <draft-ietf-v6ops-ipv6-multihoming-without-ipv6nat-05.txt>

      Network Address and Port Translation (NAPT) works well for conserving
      global addresses and addressing multihoming requirements, because an
      IPv4 NAPT router implements three functions: source address
      selection, next-hop resolution and optionally DNS resolution.  For
      IPv6 hosts one approach could be the use of NPTv6.  However, NAT
      should be avoided, if at all possible, to permit transparent end-to-
      end connectivity.  In this document, we analyze the use cases of
      multihoming.  We also describe functional requirements and possible
      solutions for multihoming without the use of NAT in IPv6 for hosts
      and small IPv6 networks that would otherwise be unable to meet
      minimum IPv6 allocation criteria.  We conclude that DHCPv6 based
      solutions are suitable to solve the multihoming issues, described in
      this document, while NPTv6 may be required as an intermediate
      solution.

  "Basic Requirements for IPv6 Customer Edge Routers", Hemant Singh, Wes
  Beebee, Chris Donley, Barbara Stark, 2012-10-30,
  <draft-ietf-v6ops-6204bis-12.txt>

      This document specifies requirements for an IPv6 Customer Edge (CE)
      router.  Specifically, the current version of this document focuses
      on the basic provisioning of an IPv6 CE router and the provisioning
      of IPv6 hosts attached to it.  The document also covers IP transition
      technologies.  Two transition technologies in RFC 5969's 6rd and RFC
      6333's DS-Lite are covered in the document.  The document obsoletes
      RFC 6204, if approved.

  "Implementation Advice for IPv6 Router Advertisement Guard (RA-Guard)",
  Fernando Gont, 2012-11-14,
  <draft-ietf-v6ops-ra-guard-implementation-07.txt>

      The IPv6 Router Advertisement Guard (RA-Guard) mechanism is commonly
      employed to mitigate attack vectors based on forged ICMPv6 Router
      Advertisement messages.  Many existing IPv6 deployments rely on RA-
      Guard as the first line of defense against the aforementioned attack
      vectors.  However, some implementations of RA-Guard have been found
      to be prone to circumvention by employing IPv6 Extension Headers.
      This document describes the evasion techniques that affect the
      aforementioned implementations, and formally updates RFC 6105, such
      that the aforementioned RA-Guard evasion vectors are eliminated.

  "Enterprise IPv6 Deployment Guidelines", KK Chittimaneni, Tim Chown, Lee
  Howard, Victor Kuarsingh, Yanick Pouffary, Eric Vyncke, 2013-10-16,
  <draft-ietf-v6ops-enterprise-incremental-ipv6-04.txt>

      Enterprise network administrators worldwide are in various stages of
      preparing for or deploying IPv6 into their networks.  The
      administrators face different challenges than operators of Internet
      access providers, and have reasons for different priorities.  The
      overall problem for many administrators will be to offer Internet-
      facing services over IPv6, while continuing to support IPv4, and
      while introducing IPv6 access within the enterprise IT network.  The
      overall transition will take most networks from an IPv4-only
      environment to a dual stack network environment and eventually an
      IPv6-only operating mode.  This document helps provide a framework
      for enterprise network architects or administrators who may be faced
      with many of these challenges as they consider their IPv6 support
      strategies.

  "NAT64 Operational Experiences", Gang Chen, Zhen Cao, Chongfeng Xie,
  David Binet, 2013-10-13, <draft-ietf-v6ops-nat64-experience-04.txt>

      This document summarizes NAT64 function deployment scenarios and
      operational experience.  Both NAT64 Carrier Grade NAT (NAT64-CGN) and
      NAT64 server Front End (NAT64-FE) are considered in this document.

  "IPv6 for 3GPP Cellular Hosts", Jouni Korhonen, Jari Arkko, Teemu
  Savolainen, Suresh Krishnan, 2013-09-15,
  <draft-ietf-v6ops-rfc3316bis-06.txt>

      As the deployment of third and fourth generation cellular networks
      progresses, a large number of cellular hosts are being connected to
      the Internet.  Standardization organizations have made Internet
      Protocol version 6 (IPv6) mandatory in their specifications.
      However, the concept of IPv6 covers many aspects and numerous
      specifications.  In addition, the characteristics of cellular links
      in terms of bandwidth, cost and delay put special requirements on how
      IPv6 is used.  This document considers IPv6 for cellular hosts that
      attach to the General Packet Radio Service (GPRS), Universal Mobile
      Telecommunications System (UMTS), or Evolved Packet System (EPS)
      networks (Hereafter collectively referred to as 3GPP networks).  This
      document also lists out specific IPv6 functionalities that need to be
      implemented in addition what is already prescribed in the IPv6 Node
      Requirements document.  It also discusses some issues related to the
      use of these components when operating in these networks.  This
      document obsoletes RFC 3316.

  "Extending an IPv6 /64 Prefix from a 3GPP Mobile Interface to a LAN
  link", Cameron Byrne, Dan Drown, Vizdal Ales, 2013-10-06,
  <draft-ietf-v6ops-64share-09.txt>

      This document describes requirements for extending an IPv6 /64 prefix
      from a User Equipment 3GPP radio interface to a LAN link as well as
      two implementation examples.

  "An Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) Profile for 3GPP Mobile Devices",
  David Binet, Mohamed Boucadair, Vizdal Ales, Cameron Byrne, Gang Chen,
  2013-09-10, <draft-ietf-v6ops-mobile-device-profile-06.txt>

      This document defines an IPv6 profile that a number of operators
      recommend in order to connect 3GPP mobile devices to an IPv6-only or
      dual-stack wireless network (including 3GPP cellular network and IEEE
      802.11 network).
      
      This document defines a different profile than the one for general
      connection to IPv6 cellular networks defined in
      [I-D.ietf-v6ops-rfc3316bis].  In particular, this document identifies
      also features to deliver IPv4 connectivity service over an IPv6-only
      transport.
      
      Both hosts and devices with capability to share their WAN (Wide Area
      Network) connectivity are in scope.

  "Recommendations of Using Unique Local Addresses", Bing Liu, Sheng
  Jiang, Cameron Byrne, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-v6ops-ula-usage-recommendations-01.txt>

      This document provides guidance of how to use ULA. It analyzes ULA
      usage scenarios and recommends use cases where ULA address might be
      beneficially used.

  "IPv6 Operational Guidelines for Datacenters", Diego Lopez, Zhonghua
  Chen, Tina Tsou, Cathy Zhou, Arturo Servin, 2013-08-13,
  <draft-ietf-v6ops-dc-ipv6-00.txt>

      This document is intended to provide operational guidelines for
      datacenter operators planning to deploy IPv6 in their
      infrastructures.  It aims to offer a reference framework for
      evaluating different products and architectures, and therefore it is
      also addressed to manufacturers and solution providers, so they can
      use it to gauge their solutions.  We believe this will translate in a
      smoother and faster IPv6 transition for datacenters of these
      infrastuctures.
      
      The document focuses on the DC infrastructure itself, its operation,
      and the aspects related to DC interconnection through IPv6.  It does
      not consider the particular mechanisms for making Internet services
      provided by applications hosted in the DC available through IPv6
      beyond the specific aspects related to how their deployment on the
      Data Center (DC) infrastructure.
      
      Apart from facilitating the transition to IPv6, the mechanisms
      outlined here are intended to make this transition as transparent as
      possible (if not completely transparent) to applications and services
      running on the DC infrastructure, as well as to take advantage of
      IPv6 features to simplify DC operations, internally and across the
      Internet.

  "Monitoring Dual Stack/IPv6-only Networks and Services", Arturo Servin,
  Mariela Rocha, 2013-08-14, <draft-ietf-v6ops-monitor-ds-ipv6-00.txt>

      This document describes a set of recommendations and guidelines to
      help operators to monitor dual stack and IPv6-only networks.  The
      document describes how to monitor these networks using SNMP, Flow
      Analyzers and other means.

  "Balanced Security for IPv6 Residential CPE", Martin Gysi, Guillaume
  Leclanche, Eric Vyncke, Ragnar Anfinsen, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-v6ops-balanced-ipv6-security-00.txt>

      This document describes how an IPv6 residential Customer Premise
      Equipment (CPE) can have a balanced security policy that allows for a
      mostly end-to-end connectivity while keeping the major threats
      outside of the home.  It is based on an actual IPv6 deployment by
      Swisscom and allows all packets inbound/outbound EXCEPT for some
      layer-4 ports where attacks and vulnerabilities (such as weak
      passwords) are well-known.  The blocked inbound ports is expected to
      be updated as threats come and go.

Web Security (websec)
---------------------

  "Public Key Pinning Extension for HTTP", Chris Evans, Chris Palmer, Ryan
  Sleevi, 2013-07-11, <draft-ietf-websec-key-pinning-08.txt>

      This memo describes an extension to the HTTP protocol allowing web
      host operators to instruct user agents (UAs) to remember ("pin") the
      hosts' cryptographic identities for a given period of time.  During
      that time, UAs will require that the host present a certificate chain
      including at least one Subject Public Key Info structure whose
      fingerprint matches one of the pinned fingerprints for that host.  By
      effectively reducing the number of authorities who can authenticate
      the domain during the lifetime of the pin, pinning may reduce the
      incidence of man-in-the-middle attacks due to compromised
      Certification Authorities.

  "Hypertext Transport Protocol (HTTP) Session Continuation: Problem
  Statement", Nico Williams, 2013-07-07,
  <draft-ietf-websec-session-continue-prob-00.txt>

      One of the most often talked about problems in web security is
      "cookies".  Web cookies are a method of associating requests with
      "sessions" that may have been authenticated somehow.  Cookies are a
      form of bearer token that leave much to be desired.  This document
      describes the session "continuation" problem for the HyperText
      Transport Protocol (HTTP).

Web Extensible Internet Registration Data Service (weirds)
----------------------------------------------------------

  "JSON Responses for the Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP)",
  Andrew Newton, Scott Hollenbeck, 2013-10-03,
  <draft-ietf-weirds-json-response-06.txt>

      This document describes JSON data structures representing
      registration information maintained by Regional Internet Registries
      (RIRs) and Domain Name Registries (DNRs).  These data structures are
      used to form Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) query
      responses.

  "Registration Data Access Protocol Query Format", Andrew Newton, Scott
  Hollenbeck, 2013-10-01, <draft-ietf-weirds-rdap-query-07.txt>

      This document describes uniform patterns to construct HTTP URLs that
      may be used to retrieve registration information from registries
      (including both Regional Internet Registries (RIRs) and Domain Name
      Registries (DNRs)) using "RESTful" web access patterns.

  "Security Services for the Registration Data Access Protocol", Scott
  Hollenbeck, Ning Kong, 2013-08-19, <draft-ietf-weirds-rdap-sec-05.txt>

      The Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) provides "RESTful" web
      services to retrieve registration metadata from domain name and
      regional internet registries.  This document describes information
      security services including authentication, authorization,
      availability, data confidentiality, and data integrity for RDAP.

  "HTTP usage in the Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP)", Andrew
  Newton, Byron Ellacott, Ning Kong, 2013-07-03,
  <draft-ietf-weirds-using-http-07.txt>

      This document is one of a collection that together describe the
      Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP).  It describes how RDAP is
      transported using the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP).

  "Redirection Service for Registration Data Access Protocol", Carlos
  Martinez, Arturo Servin, Linlin Zhou, Dario Gomez, Gerardo Rada,
  2013-07-15, <draft-ietf-weirds-redirects-02.txt>

      The traditional WHOIS protocol has several important shortcomings,
      and over the past few years several approaches to a better
      Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) have been discussed and
      proposed.
      
      It is worth noting that the term WHOIS is sometimes used
      interchangeably to mean either (a) the registration data itself or
      (b) the protocol used to access registration data
      
      Among these shortcomings, different registries operate different
      WHOIS services.  For users this means that several WHOIS queries to
      different registries may be necessary in order to obtain data for a
      given resource.
      
      This document describes a redirection service for RDAP queries.  This
      service allows clients to query a single RDAP service and expect
      either an authoritative answer or a redirection hint pointing to
      another, possibly authoritative, RDAP server.
      
      The solution implemented proposed here applies to Regional Internet
      Registries(RIRs) and Domain Name Registries(DNRs).

  "Registration Data Access Protocol Object Inventory Analysis", Linlin
  Zhou, Ning Kong, Sean Shen, Arturo Servin, Steve Sheng, 2013-10-14,
  <draft-ietf-weirds-object-inventory-01.txt>

      WHOIS output objects from registries (including both Regional
      Internet Registries (RIRs) and Domain Name Registries (DNRs)) were
      collected and analyzed.  This document describes the statistical
      analysis process and result of existing WHOIS information.  The
      purpose of this document is to build an object inventory to
      facilitate discussions of data objects included in Registration Data
      Access Protocol (RDAP) responses.

Web PKI OPS (wpkops)
--------------------

  "Trust models of the Web PKI", Inigo Barreira, Bruce Morton, 2013-10-21,
  <draft-ietf-wpkops-trustmodel-00.txt>

      This is one of a set of documents to define the operation of the Web
      PKI.  It describes the currently deployed Web PKI trust model.

Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (xmpp)
-------------------------------------------------

  "Domain Name Associations (DNA) in the Extensible Messaging and Presence
  Protocol (XMPP)", Peter Saint-Andre, Matthew Miller, 2013-10-20,
  <draft-ietf-xmpp-dna-04.txt>

      This document improves the security of the Extensible Messaging and
      Presence Protocol (XMPP) in two ways.  First, it specifies how
      "prooftypes" can establish a strong association between a domain name
      and an XML stream.  Second, it describes how to securely delegate a
      source domain to a derived domain, which is especially important in
      virtual hosting environments.

  "Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP): Address Format",
  Peter Saint-Andre, 2013-10-18, <draft-ietf-xmpp-6122bis-08.txt>

      This document defines the address format for the Extensible Messaging
      and Presence Protocol (XMPP), including support for code points
      outside the ASCII range.  This document obsoletes RFC 6122.

  "An XMPP Sub-protocol for WebSocket", Lance Stout, Jack Moffitt, Eric
  Cestari, 2013-09-05, <draft-ietf-xmpp-websocket-00.txt>

      This document defines a binding for the XMPP protocol over a
      WebSocket transport layer.  A WebSocket binding for XMPP provides
      higher performance than the current HTTP binding for XMPP.

Metric Blocks for use with RTCP's Extended Report Framework (xrblock)
---------------------------------------------------------------------

  "RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Extended Report (XR) for Run Length
  Encoding (RLE) of Discarded Packets", Joerg Ott, Varun Singh, Igor
  Curcio, 2013-09-30,
  <draft-ietf-xrblock-rtcp-xr-discard-rle-metrics-07.txt>

      The RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) is used in conjunction with the Real-
      time Transport Protocol (RTP) in to provide a variety of short-term
      and long-term reception statistics.  The available reporting may
      include aggregate information across longer periods of time as well
      as individual packet reporting.  This document specifies a per-packet
      report metric capturing individual packets discarded from the de-
      jitter buffer after successful reception.

  "RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Extended Report (XR) Blocks for MOS Metric
  Reporting", Alan Clark, Wenson Wu, Roland Schott, Glen Zorn, 2013-09-24,
  <draft-ietf-xrblock-rtcp-xr-qoe-12.txt>

      This document defines an RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Extended Report
      (XR) Block including two new segment types and associated SDP
      parameters that allow the reporting of MOS Metrics for use in a range
      of RTP applications.

  "RTCP XR Report Block for Concealment metrics Reporting on Audio
  Applications", Alan Clark, Glen Zorn, Claire Bi, Wenson Wu, 2013-07-09,
  <draft-ietf-xrblock-rtcp-xr-loss-conceal-08.txt>

      This document defines two RTCP XR Report Blocks that allows the
      reporting of concealment metrics for audio applications of RTP.

  "RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Extended Report (XR) Blocks for
  Synchronization Delay and Offset Metrics Reporting", Hitoshi Asaeda,
  Rachel Huang, Wenson Wu, 2013-05-28,
  <draft-ietf-xrblock-rtcp-xr-synchronization-06.txt>

      This document defines two RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Extended Report
      (XR) Blocks that allow the reporting of synchronization delay and
      offset metrics for use in a range of RTP applications.

  "RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Extended Report (XR) for Bytes Discarded
  Metric", Varun Singh, Joerg Ott, Igor Curcio, 2013-10-01,
  <draft-ietf-xrblock-rtcp-xr-bytes-discarded-metric-00.txt>

      The RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) is used in conjunction with the Real-
      time Transport Protocol (RTP) in to provide a variety of short-term
      and long-term reception statistics.  The available reporting may
      include aggregate information across longer periods of time as well
      as individual packet reporting.  This document specifies a report
      computing the bytes discarded from the de-jitter buffer after
      successful reception.

  "Real-time Transport Control Protocol Extension Report for Run Length
  Encoding of Discarded Packets", Joerg Ott, Igor Curcio, Varun Singh,
  2013-10-01, <draft-ietf-xrblock-rtcp-xt-discard-metrics-00.txt>

      The Real-time Transport Control Protocol (RTCP) is used in
      conjunction with the Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) in to provide
      a variety of short-term and long-term reception statistics.  The
      available reporting may include aggregate information across longer
      periods of time as well as individual packet reporting.  This
      document specifies a per-packet report metric capturing individual
      packets discarded from the jitter buffer after successful reception.


